Two children both cross the river in the boat

One child returns with the boat

One soldier crosses in the boat

The child on the opposite shore returns with the boat

We are in the same situation as before, but with one soldier on the opposite bank. There is a total of 358 people to get across the river. It will therefore take 358 ∗ 4 = 1432 crossings to get all the men over, leaving the children together with the boat.

## 1115 Red-Blue Die Match

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

You have three fair 6 -sided dice in front of you. One of the dice is red, while the other two are blue. Find the probability exactly one of the blue dice matches the red die in value.

## Explanation:

Let the value of the red die be arbitrary. There are 2 ways to pick the blue die that matches it in value. The probability of a match is 1 6 . The probability the other die does not match the red die is 5 6 , so the total probability of exactly one match is 2 · 5 6 · 1 6 = 5 18 .

## 1116 Dice Order II

Company : None

## Prompt:

You roll three fair dice. What is the probability that the highest value rolled is a four?

## Explanation:

A brute force approach is possible, but a more analytical approach will be provided here. In order for the maximum to be exactly four, the maximum must be less than or equal to four, but not less than or equal to three. In order words:

$$P ( \max = 4 ) & = P ( \max \leq 4 ) - P ( \max \leq 3 ) \\ & = \frac { 4 } { 6 } \times \frac { 4 } { 6 } \times \frac { 4 } { 6 } - \frac { 3 } { 6 } \times \frac { 3 } { 6 } \times \frac { 3 } { 6 } \\ & = \frac { 3 7 } { 2 1 6 }$$