Adding back the sum of the digits in 1000000, 1, we find our answer to be 27000001.

## 129 Simple Delta Hedge I

Company :

## Prompt:

You currently have 100 call options of an underlying with ∆ = 0 . 33 . You want to delta-hedge your portfolio. How many units of the underlying should you buy/sell? Enter -x if you are looking to sell x units.

## Explanation:

The ∆ of the overall portfolio is 100 · 0 . 33 = 33 . The underlying has ∆ = 1 . To remain delta-neutral, we need to short 33 units of the underlying.

## 130 Leap Frog

Company : DRW, Squarepoint Capital, Five Rings

## Prompt:

A frog starting at position 0 is going to jump on the integers. At each step, the frog will choose to jump forward 1 or 2 steps with equal probability. Let p k be the probability that the frog hits position k &gt; 0 . Find the largest value of p k .

## Explanation:

We want to maximize p k . We are going to explicitly solve for p k . We know that the frog jumps 1 or 2 steps at each time. Therefore, for position k , we can only reach it from positions k -1 or k -2 . Namely, by Law of Total Probability, p k = 1 2 p k -1 + 1 2 p k -2 . The 1 2 represents the probability of selecting 1 or 2 steps when at position k -1 and k -2 , respectively. This is a homogeneous second-order recurrence relation with constant coefficients. We can see this by rearranging to get -p k + 1 2 p k -1 + 1 2 p k -2 = 0 . The characteristic polynomial is -r 2 + 1 2 r + 1 2 = 0 . By multiplying both sides by -2 , this is equivalent to 2 r 2 -r -1 = 0 . By using the quadratic equation, the roots are r = 1 , -1 2 . Therefore, our solution is in the form p k = c 0 + c 1 ( -1 2 ) k . We need some initial conditions on this. Namely, it is very easy to calculate p 0 and p 1 . We have that p 0 = 1 as we start at 0 . Additionally, p 1 = 1 2 since we must take 1 step starting from 0 to reach it. Otherwise, we do not hit it. We get the system of equations c 0 + c 1 = 1 and c 0 -1 2 c 1 = 1 2 . It is simple enough to verify that c 0 = 2 3 and c 1 = 1 3 solve this system.