final answer is just

$$V a r ( 4 T _ { N } ) = \frac { - \pi ^ { 2 } + 4 \pi } { N }$$

This means a = -1 and b = 4 , so a + b = 3 .

## 895 Square Ratio

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that X,Y ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. Compute the probability that /ceilingleft Y X /ceilingright is a perfect square. The answer is in the form q -π 2 a for a rational q and an integer a . Find aq .

## Explanation:

The perfect square in question here are 1 , 4 , 9 , . . . . For the ceiling of Y X to be a perfect square, say k 2 , then ( k 2 -1) X &lt; Y ≤ k 2 X . However, for k = 1 , we just have the condition Y ≤ X , as we can't have negative values. For k = 1 , the probability Y &lt; X is just 1 2 . Now, for k ≥ 2 , plotting out the region of interest in the plane, we see that for a fixed k , the region is a triangle with vertices as (0 , 0) , ( 1 k 2 , 1 ) , and ( 1 k 2 -1 , 1 ) . Treating this region as the difference of two triangles, the probability for a fixed k is just 1 2( k 2 -1) -1 2 k 2 . Now, we sum up over all k ≥ 2 to get that our probability is

$$\frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \sum _ { k = 2 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { k ^ { 2 } - 1 } - \frac { 1 } { k ^ { 2 } }$$

We can evaluate the sum of the first term with a little creativity. Note that 1 k 2 -1 = 1 2 · 1 k -1 -1 2 · 1 k +1 by partial fractions. Therefore, plugging this and expanding out the two terms, we have

$$\frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \sum _ { k = 2 } ^ { \infty } \left ( \frac { 1 } { k - 1 } - \frac { 1 } { k + 1 } \right ) - \frac { 1 } { 2 } \sum _ { k = 2 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { k ^ { 2 } }$$

The first sum telescopes to 1+ 1 2 = 3 2 , as the remaining terms cancel. The term telescopes since the subtracted term lags behind by 2 , so only the k = 2 and k = 3 terms are counted. Then, the second term is close to the known sum

$$\sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { k ^ { 2 } } = \frac { \pi ^ { 2 } } { 6 }$$

The only difference is the k = 1 term is missing. Therefore, the sum in our question evaluates to π 2 6 -1 , as we add and subtract the k = 1 term. Plugging in everything, our probability is

$$\frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot \frac { 3 } { 2 } - \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \left ( \frac { \pi ^ { 2 } } { 6 } - 1 \right ) = \frac { 1 1 } { 8 } - \frac { \pi ^ { 2 } } { 1 2 }$$