## 353 Basic Dice Game IV

Company : Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

You roll a fair die. Then, you get to roll until you obtain a value that differs from your first roll. You get paid out the value equal to the sum of all of your rolls (including the first one). What is the fair value of this game?

## Explanation:

We know that the value we need to not roll depends on the value we roll first. This implores us to use Law of Total Expectation and condition on the first value that we roll. Namely, if X 1 is our first roll and T is our

$$& \text { of Total Expectation and condition on the first value that we roll.} \\ & \text { total, } \mathbb { E } [ T ] = \mathbb { E } [ \mathbb { E } [ T \, | \, X _ { 1 } ] ] = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 6 } \mathbb { E } [ T \, | \, X _ { 1 } = i ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = i ] .$$

$$W \, \text {know } \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = i ] = \frac { 1 } { 6 } \text { for all } 1 \leq i \leq 6 , \, \text {so } \mathbb { E } [ T ] = \frac { 1 } { 6 } \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 6 } \mathbb { E } [ T \, | \, X _ { 1 } = i ]$$

To compute E [ T | X 1 = i ] , we first know that we start with i in the bank from our first roll. Therefore, E [ T | X 1 = i ] = i + E [ T ′ | X 1 = i ] , where T ′ is the money that is made after the first roll.

We know that with probability 1 6 , we roll the value i again, and our bank is now i larger than before and we are at the same game as before. Otherwise, with probability 5 6 , we cash out next round, as we don't roll the value i . If we are given that we don't roll i on the second die, then our expected value would be 21 -i 5 , as the sum of the other faces is 21 -i and each of those 5 would be equally likely if it is not the value i . Therefore, by Law of Total Expectation,

$$\mathbb { E } [ T ^ { \prime } \, | \, X _ { 1 } = i ] = \frac { 1 } { 6 } \, ( i + \mathbb { E } [ T ^ { \prime } \, | \, X _ { 1 } = i ] ) + \frac { 5 } { 6 } \cdot \frac { 2 1 - i } { 5 }$$

Solving this, we see that i cancels and we obtain that E [ T ′ | X 1 = i ] = 21 5 for each i . Adding back the first roll, E [ T | X 1 = i ] = i + 21 5 .

Therefore, as E [ T ] is just the average of E [ T | X 1 = i ] for each i , so E [ T ] = 1 6 6 ∑ i =1 ( 21 5 + i ) = 21 5 + 7 2 = 77 10 .