rolled the die when the running sum first becomes a multiple of 7 . You get to decide whether to go first or second. Under rational strategy from you, what is your probability of winning?

## Explanation:

Intuitively, it is clear that you should select to go second. This is because you have no chance of winning on the first roll, but every roll after the first roll, there is a 1 / 6 probability that you win the game, as exactly 1 of the 6 possible values on the will make the sum a multiple of 7 .

Let's compute the probability that you, the second player to roll, wins. Call this probability p . By conditioning on your first roll, there is a 5 / 6 probability you do not roll a value resulting in a sum divisible by 7 on the first turn. To come back to you, you would need your friend to also not roll a value resulting in a sum divisible by 7 , which occurs with probability 5 / 6 too. In this case, your probability of winning when it comes back to you is p . Alternatively, you do roll the value that results in a sum divisible by 7 , occurring with probability 1 / 6 . Therefore, we have the equation

$$p = \frac { 5 } { 6 } \cdot \frac { 5 } { 6 } p + \frac { 1 } { 6 } \iff p = \frac { 6 } { 1 1 }$$

$$\frac { 1 0 ! } { 6 ! } = n !$$

## 135 Fancy Factorial

Company : None

## Prompt:

for some integer n . What is n ?

## Explanation:

We know that 1 &lt; n &lt; 10 . This is because if n = 1 , then this implies 10! = 6! , which is clearly untrue. In addition, n &lt; 10 , as 6! &gt; 1 . We can write out 10! 6! = 10 · 9 · 8 · 7 · 6! 6! = 10 · 9 · 8 · 7 . With this, we know that n ≥ 7 , as 7 can't be reduced into any lower factors and it must be in the factorial of n .

Let's write out a factorization of 10 · 9 · 8 · 7 . We can write 10 = 2 · 5 . In addition, 9 · 8 = 72 = 1 · 3 · 4 · 6 . Therefore, 10 · 9 · 8 · 7 = 7 · 6 · 5 · 4 · 3 · 2 · 1 = 7! , so n = 7 .

## 136 Dice Profits

Company : None