## 511 Binary String

Company :

## Prompt:

A computer is interpreting an 8 -bit binary string, which consists of 8 characters that are either 1 or 0 . How many such strings begin with 1 or end with the two characters 00 ?

## Explanation:

Let S be the event the string starts with 1 and O be the event it ends with 00 . We want | S ∪ O | = | S | + | O | -| SO | . There are 2 7 strings starting with 1 , as we fix the first spot of the string and the other 7 spots have 2 options each. Similarly, | O | = 2 6 and | SO | = 2 5 by the same logic. We have that | S ∪ O | = 128+64 -32 = 160 .

## 512 Kiddie Pool

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

You are trying to fill up an inflatable kiddie pool. One hose can fill it up in 20 minutes. Another hose can fill it up in 10 minutes. If the pool is full, it takes 15 minutes to drain out the water after the drain is opened. How long does it take in minutes to fill the pool with both hoses and the drain being open?

## Explanation:

This is a rates problem so let's answer it as such. For every minute, the first hose fills up 1 20 th of the pool, the second hose fills up 1 10 th , and the drain removes 1 15 th of the pool. Thus the combined rate is 1 20 + 1 10 -1 15 = 1 12 . With the two hoses and the drain open, we fill up 1 12 th of the pool every minute. Thus it takes 12 minutes to completely fill up the pool.

## 513 Good Grid II

Company : Tower Research Capital

## Prompt:

Let a, b, c, and d be uniformly at random selected from S n = [ -n, n ] ∩ Z , the integers that are at most n . Define the two closed intervals I 1 = [ min { a, b } , max { a, b } ] and I 2 = [ min { c, d } , max { c, d } ] . Let p ( n ) be the probability (as a function of n ) that I 1 is completely contained inside I 2 . This means that

$$\min \{ c , d \} < \min \{ a , b \} \leq \max \{ a , b \} < \max \{ c , d \}$$