## Prompt:

Let F n be the Fibonacci sequence. Compute lim n →∞ F n +1 F n . Your answer should be in the form a + √ b c , where all of a, b, and c are pairwise relatively prime. Find abc .

## Explanation:

We can write F n +1 = F n + F n -1 , so if L is the limit in question, we have that F n +1 = 1 + F n -1 , so in limit,

F n F n L = 1 + 1 L . Equivalently, L 2 -L -1 = 0 . This has roots L 1 , 2 = 1 ± √ 5 2 . Since Fibonacci numbers are increasing as n increasing, we must take the positive root, so L = 1 + √ 5 2 , meaning abc = 1 · 2 · 5 = 10 .

## 1033 9 Digit Sum

Company :

## Prompt:

Find the sum of all 9 -digit integers using all of the digits 1 -9 . The answer is in the form k · a ! · (10 b -1) for a, b, and k integers such that a and b are maximal. Find abk .

## Explanation:

Each of the 9 digits is going to appear in each of the 9 spots in 8! of the numbers. This is because when we fix an integer in one of the spots, there are 8! other ways to permute the other 8 integers to the other 8 spots. Therefore, we just need to sum up all of the different positions i.e. powers of 10 and all of the digits. Namely, if S is the sum, we have that

$$S = 8 ! \sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { 9 } \left ( 1 0 ^ { 0 } + 1 0 ^ { 1 } + \cdots + 1 0 ^ { 8 } \right ) n = 8 ! \cdot \frac { 1 0 ^ { 9 } - 1 } { 1 0 - 1 } \cdot \sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { 9 } n = 5 \cdot 8 ! \cdot ( 1 0 ^ { 9 } - 1 )$$

This means abk = 8 · 5 · 9 = 360 .

## 1034 Betting Orbs

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You are presented with a bag of 4 orbs. You know that 2 are blue and 2 are red. You start drawing them without replacement from the bag one-by-one. Before each draw, you are given the opportunity to guess the color of the orb that is about to be drawn. If you get it correct, you earn $1 . Under an optimal strategy, what is your expected profit of this game?