## Prompt:

You roll three fair dice. On average, what will the minimum of the three rolls be?

## Explanation:

An analytical approach is possible, but a more visual, and perhaps more elegant, approach will be provided. Imagine a 6 × 6 × 6 cube where each axis records the value of a die such that each of the 216 voxels represents a possible, equally probable outcome. For example the voxel (3 , 5 , 1) represents rolling 3 on the first die, 5 on the second die, and 1 on the third die. The set of outcomes where the minimum value is 6 is simply (6,6,6). The set of outcomes where the minimum is exactly 5 is the sub-cube from (5,5,5) to (6,6,6) minus the (6,6,6) voxel; in total, there are 2 3 -1 3 = 7 possibilities. The set of outcomes where the minimum is exactly 4 is the sub-cube from (4,4,4) to (6,6,6) minus the (5,5,5) to (6,6,6) sub-cube; in total, there are 3 3 -2 3 = 7 possibilities. The pattern is becoming clear. For the minimum to be exactly x of n d -sided dice, the number of possibilities is:

$$( d - x + 1 ) ^ { n } - ( d - x ) ^ { n }$$

Solving for each event's probability, we find the expected value of the minimum of three dice rolls to be:

$$\frac { 1 } { 2 1 6 } ( 6 ) + \frac { 7 } { 2 1 6 } ( 5 ) + \frac { 1 9 } { 2 1 6 } ( 4 ) + \frac { 3 7 } { 2 1 6 } ( 3 ) + \frac { 6 1 } { 2 1 6 } ( 2 ) + \frac { 9 1 } { 2 1 6 } ( 1 ) = \frac { 4 9 } { 2 4 }$$

## 160 Random Angle I

Company :

## Prompt:

A right triangle is being formed with legs labeled A and B . The random lengths of legs A and B are both IID Unif (0 , 1) . Let θ be the angle that is opposite of side A . Find the probability θ &gt; π 4 .

## Explanation:

We know that tan( θ ) = A B . If θ &gt; π 4 , then tan( θ ) &gt; 1 , so A B &gt; 1 , or A &gt; B . Thus, we want P [ A &gt; B ] , which is just 1 2 as A and B are IID and hence exchangeable.

## 161 Butterfly Payoff

Company :

## Prompt:

You buy a butterfly spread with wings at K = 35 and K = 40 and body at K = 37 . 5 . What would you like the price of the underlying at expiry to be? In other words, what do you want S T to be?