## Explanation:

We can avoid principle of inclusion-exclusion by employing a complementary approach. First, we draw an arbitrary triangle /triangle ABC . Consider when AB is the base of the triangle. We draw a line parallel to AB such that it splits the height of length h into two lines of lengths 3 h 4 and h 4 . We notice that P must fall within the region between that line and AB in order for our condition to be satisfied. Repeating for bases BC and CA and subsequently length-chasing with similar triangles, we find that there is a triangle with sides of length 1 4 AB, 1 4 BC, 1 4 CA in the middle of /triangle ABC where P cannot fall. So, our answer is 1 -1 16 = 15 16 .

## 848 Cats and Dogs II

Company :

## Prompt:

Six dogs and six cats are sitting at a circular table uniformly at random. Find the probability that there are exactly four dogs in a row somewhere in the circle.

## Explanation:

Since this table is circular, there are 12! 12 = 11! arrangements of the animals. As we want exactly 4 dogs in a row, this implies that we need to have the sequence CDDDDC somewhere. In particular, there are 6 ways to pick the first cat. Then, there are 6 · 5 · 4 · 3 ways to order the 4 dogs in our sequence. Then, there are 5 ways to pick the cat on the other side. Afterwards, we still have 6 animals left over, so there are 6! ways to order the remaining animals. This implies that our probability is

$$\frac { 6 \cdot 6 \cdot 5 \cdot 4 \cdot 3 \cdot 5 \cdot 6 ! } { 1 1 ! } = \frac { 1 5 } { 7 7 }$$

## 849 Big Bubble II

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

A spherical bubble has a radius increasing at a rate of 9 4 π inches per second. At the moment when the volume of the bubble is increasing at 36 cubic inches per second, what rate is the surface area increasing at (in square inches per second)?

## Explanation:

We know that V ( r ) = 4 3 π r 3 and S ( r ) = 4 π r 2 represent the volume and the surface area of the bubble as a function of radius. We know that r ′ = 9 4 π is constant. Taking the derivatives of each, we see that V ′ = 4 π r 2 r ′