## 505 High or Die

Company : None

## Prompt:

Francisco rolls a fair die and records the value he rolls. Afterwards, he continues rolling the die until he obtains a value at least as large as the first roll. Let N be the number of rolls after the first he performs. Find E [ N ] .

## Explanation:

How likely it is to obtain a value that is at least as large as the first value depends on the first value itself. Therefore, we should condition on X 1 , the value of the first roll. This means that E [ N ] = E [ E [ N | X 1 ]] . Given X 1 , there are 7 -X 1 values on the die at least X 1 , so the probability of obtaining a value at least X 1 any given roll would be 7 -X 1 6 . Therefore, the expected number of rolls needed to do so is 6 7 -X 1 . Plugging this in and using LOTUS,

$$\mathbb { E } [ N ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ \frac { 6 } { 7 - X _ { 1 } } \right ] = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 6 } \frac { 6 } { 7 - i } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 6 } = \frac { 4 9 } { 2 0 }$$

## 506 Squared Matrix

Company : DRW

## Prompt:

$$\text {Prompt} \colon & & & & & & \\ & \text {Suppose that } A = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & x & - 1 \\ 2 & - 2 & y \\ 0 & 3 & 0 \end{bmatrix} \text { and } A ^ { 2 } = \begin{bmatrix} 9 & - 7 & 1 1 \\ - 2 & 2 & - 8 \\ 6 & - 6 & 9 \end{bmatrix} . \text { Find } x y . \\$$

## Explanation:

By multiplying the first row of A by the first column of A , we get that 1 + 2 x = 9 by equating entries, meaning x = 4 . Afterwards, by multiplying the second row of A by the by the second column of A , we get that 2 x +4+3 y = 21 . Since x = 4 from before, we have that 3 y = 9 after rearrangement, yielding y = 3 . Therefore, xy = 12 .

## 507 Jane's Children

Company : Jane Street, Goldman Sachs, SIG, DE Shaw

## Prompt:

There is a conference for parents with at least one daughter. Jane, a mother with two children, is invited. What is the probability that Jane has two daughters?