on the probability measure, we can separate out each of the individual events and take the sum of their probabilities. We can assume independence upon gender from birth to birth, equally likely probabilities of birth on any given day of the week, and independence between day of the week of birth and gender. We can find easily find P [ B ∗ ] = 1 2 · 1 7 = 1 14 and P [ B ] = 1 2 · 6 7 = 6 14 . Thus, since there is independence from birth to birth, P [ B ∗ B ∗ ] = 1 14 · 1 14 = 1 196 and P [ B ∗ B ] = 2 · 1 14 · 6 14 = 12 196 . Note the factor of 2 out front, as we can arrange the location of the boy born on a Friday to either be the first born or the second born, so there are 2 arrangements. Lastly, P [ B ∗ G ] = 2 · 1 14 · 1 2 = 14 196 . Factor of 2 out front for same reason as above. Thus, we have our final probability as

$$\frac { \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { * } B ^ { * } \cup B ^ { * } B ] } { \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { * } B ^ { * } \cup B ^ { * } B \cup B ^ { * } G ] } = \frac { \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { * } B ^ { * } ] + \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { * } B ] } { \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { * } B ^ { * } ] + \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { * } B ] + \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { * } G ] } = \frac { \frac { 1 } { 1 9 6 } + \frac { 1 2 } { 1 9 6 } } { \frac { 1 } { 1 9 6 } + \frac { 1 2 } { 1 9 6 } + \frac { 1 4 } { 1 9 6 } } = \frac { 1 3 } { 2 7 }$$

How do we reconcile this increase due to something seemingly irrelevant? It is much easier to have a boy born on a Friday if you have two boys than one boy. So if we have the information that a boy is born on a Friday, it is more likely that there are two boys.

## 479 Probability Discussion

Company : Citadel, GSA Capital, Jane Street, Akuna, Belvedere Trading, SIG

## Prompt:

Gabe and a student have decided to meet up to discuss probability. The student is very prompt and will show up at a uniformly random time between 4 and 5 PM. Gabe is a tad late, so he will show up at a uniformly random time between 4 : 30 and 5 PM. For whichever person gets there first, they will wait up to 10 minutes, and if the other person has not shown up, they will leave. Find the probability that the meeting occurs.

## Explanation:

First, let's model this mathematically. Let G and S be the number of minutes after 4 PM that Gabe and the student show up, respectively. Then we have that G ∼ Unif (30 , 60) and S ∼ Unif (0 , 60) . The event that the meeting occurs is the just the event that | G -S | ≤ 10 , as they must differ by up to 10 minutes.

We should draw out the region in the plane to see what we are working with. If you put G on the x -axis and S on the y -axis, we have a tall rectangle. When drawing the two lines corresponding to | G -S | ≤ 10 , you will notice that it is easier to calculate the probability of the complement, as those are easier regions to work with. You will see that there is one trapezoid and one triangle. It is easy enough to use some basic algebra to note that the slope is 1 , so the line will go as far vertically as it does horizontally. You will find that the base of the trapezoid is 30 , and the two heights are 20 and 50 , so its area is 1050 . The two sides