an optimal travel plan where you decide where to place any number of storage ports and how to carry the oil, how many gallons can you transport form Port A to Port B (round to the nearest gallon)?

## Explanation:

The key realization in this question is how to place the storage ports to maximize the amount of oil you are carrying per oil lost. This realization leads to the idea of having multiples of 1000 gallons at any storage port. If you don't, you aren't maximizing the efficiency metric above. Where do we place the first storage port to hold 2000 gallons of oil? Well, we need to leave 2000 3 gallons every time we arrive there from Port A. This means that the distance should be 1000 -2000 3 = 1000 3 miles away from Port A. If we only have this storage port, we will bring 1000 -2000 3 = 1000 3 gallons twice to Port B = 2000 3 ≈ 667 gallons. But we can do better by having another storage port that is a multiple of 1000 gallons, that being the port that will have 1000 gallons. From the first storage port, we can go 500 miles and drop off 500 gallons to the second storage port twice. This means this second storage port should be located 500 miles away from the first storage port = 500+ 1000 3 = 2500 3 miles away from Port A. Now we have 1000 gallons of oil that is 1000 -2500 3 = 500 3 miles away from Port B. We can carry these 1000 gallons all at once and lose 500 3 gallons of oil which leaves us with 1000 -500 3 = 2500 3 ≈ 833 gallons of oil at Port B.

## 404 ITM Expiration

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider a vanilla call and a vanilla put option on an underlying stock S , with strike K = 15 following GBM dynamics. The risk-neutral probability that the put expires in the money is 0 . 42 . What is the risk-neutral probability that the call expires in-the-money?

## Explanation:

If the put expires out-of-the-money, this means that the call must expire in-the-money. The probability that the put expires out-of-the-money is 1 -0 . 42 = 0 . 58 as the put must expire either ITM or OTM. Then, the probability that the call expires in-the-money is also 0 . 58 .

## 405 Least Multiple of 15

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

What is the least positive multiple of 15 whose digits consist of 1's and 0's only?