Namely, it is the one listed there. Afterwards, the other 4 letters LAHU can be arranged in the remaining 4 blanks completely at will in 4! ways. Therefore, the answer is

$$4 ! \cdot \left ( \begin{matrix} 1 1 \\ 7 \end{matrix} \right ) = \frac { 1 1 ! } { 7 ! } = 7 9 2 0$$

## 425 Soccer Practice

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

You're practicing soccer by taking 100 penalty kicks. Assume that you have made the first goal but missed the second. For each of the following kicks, the probability that you score is the fraction of goals you've made thus far. For example, if you made 17 goals out of the first 30 attempts, then the probability that you make the 31st goal is 17 30 . After 100 attempts, including the first two, what is the probability that you score exactly 66 penalty kicks?

## Explanation:

Among the 98 remaining penalty kicks, you must score exactly 65, which occurs ( 98 65 ) ways. Let us now find the probability of each one of these outcomes occurring. The denominator of the probability must be 99! , which is the product of the total number of kicks at each time step ( 1 2 × x 3 × y 4 × ... = z 99! ). Similarly, the numerator must be 65! × 33! , since there must be exactly 65 successful kicks and exactly 33 failed kicks. Thus, the probability of any such arrangement of is 65!33! 99! , and the probability that you score exactly 66 penalty kicks is:

## 426 Leg Count

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

A group of chickens ( 2 legs), cows ( 4 legs), and spiders ( 8 legs) are hanging out. There are a total of 440 legs between all of them. There are twice as many chickens as cows and twice as many spiders as chickens. How many spiders are there?

## Explanation:

Let x be the number of cows. Then 2 x is the number of chickens and 2(2 x ) = 4 x is the number of spiders. Therefore, with x cows, there are 4 x + 2(2 x ) + 8(4 x ) = 40 x legs. Therefore, 40 x = 440 , so x = 11 . The number of spiders then is 4 · 11 = 44 .

$$\begin{pmatrix} 9 8 \\ 6 5 \end{pmatrix} \times \frac { 6 5 ! \times 3 3 ! } { 9 9 ! } = \frac { 1 } { 9 9 }$$