As an aside, the random variables X and Y here are an example of uncorrelated but not independent random variables. This is because X 2 + Y 2 = 1 , so they can't be independent.

## 1072 Bombing Campaign

Company : None

## Prompt:

A bomb lands uniformly at random within a circle with radius 1 mile such that the target is at the center of the circle. When the bomb explodes, it wipes out everything within 1 2 miles of its landing spot. Compute the probability that the target is not destroyed.

## Explanation:

In order for the bomb to destroy the target, it must land within 1 2 miles of the target. Hence our probability of not destroying the target is simply

## 1073 Color Swap

Company :

## Prompt:

Two urns A and B are presented before you. Urn A has 100 green and 400 red balls. Urn B has 400 green and 100 red balls. 300 of the balls from Urn A are randomly selected and moved to Urn B . Then, one ball in Urn B is selected uniformly at random from the 800 balls. Find the probability that this ball is red.

## Explanation:

Let A be the event that the ball selected originated from Urn A and R be the event of a red ball. By Law of Total Probability,

$$\mathbb { P } [ R ] = \mathbb { P } [ R \, | \, A ] \mathbb { P } [ A ] + \mathbb { P } [ R \, | \, A ^ { c } ] \mathbb { P } [ A ^ { c } ]$$

We know that P [ A ] = 3 8 , as 300 of the 800 balls came from Urn A . This means that P [ A c ] = 5 8 . Given that the ball is from A , there 4 5 it is red. Given that the ball is not from A i.e. from B , there is a 1 5 chance it is red. Therefore, the total probability the ball is red is

$$\frac { 4 } { 5 } \cdot \frac { 3 } { 8 } + \frac { 1 } { 5 } \cdot \frac { 5 } { 8 } = \frac { 1 7 } { 4 0 }$$

$$\frac { \pi - \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { 2 } \pi } { \pi } = \frac { 3 } { 4 } .$$