## Prompt:

Five people, denoted 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , sit around a circular table of 5 seats. 1 does not want to sit next to either one of 2 or 5 . Additionally, 4 wishes to sit immediately to the right of 2 while 2 sits immediately to the right of 5 . Who is to the left of 5 ?

## Explanation:

We know that, from left to right, we have XY 524 , where X and Y are each one of either 1 or 3 . Since 1 doesn't want to sit next to 5 , Y = 3 , so person 3 is to the left of person 5 .

## 383 Cube Shadow

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider a cube is floating in front of you in the air, and there is a light shining on it projecting it's shadow on the wall. You are free to rotate the cube around, and want to find out what's the largest sided polygon you can create with the shadow. Enter your answer as n where n is the largest n -sided polygon you can create with it's shadow.

## Explanation:

There are 2 distinct n -sided shadow polygons you can create by rotating the die. Starting the light pointing directly at any face, you can see only one face, and your shadow result is a square. Rotate around any one of the 3 axes, and you can see two faces, but you only get a rectangle. Rotate along any two axes at once, and you'll be able to see 3 faces of the die. When viewing 3 faces, there are 9 distinct edges you see. The 3 in the middle all being shared by exactly 2 faces, and the 6 on the exterior, (only touching a single face) which make up the edges of the shadow. This shadow is a 6 -sided polygon, a hexagon, making our answer 6.

## 384 Covariance Review II

Company : Akuna

## Prompt:

You are given the following information:

$$\mathbb { E } [ X _ { 1 } ] & = - 3 \\ \mathbb { E } [ X _ { 2 } ] & = 7 \\ \text {Var} [ X _ { 1 } ] & = 2 4 \\ \text {Var} [ X _ { 2 } ] & = 6$$

Compute the maximum possible value for Cov ( X 1 , X 2 ) .