## Prompt:

Pretend you have a simple options chain on the expected value of the product of two dice rolls. What would the call option at 30 be priced at in this market?

## Explanation:

The only time that our contract will be in the money is when we roll two 6's. When we do roll two 6's, and obtain a product of 36, and will be profiting 6 units. ( 36 -30 = 6 ). Putting this together, we have a 1 36 chance of of profiting 6 units, so our option should be priced at 6 · 1 36 = 1 6

## 702 Soccer Jerseys

Company : AQR, DRW

## Prompt:

Liverpool FC sells player jerseys at random prices. The price of a Mohamed Salah jersey is normally distributed with mean $80 and standard deviation $15 . The price of a Sadio Mane jersey is normally distributed with mean $70 and standard deviation $20 , independent of Salah jerseys. Gabe wants to be 97 . 5% sure that he can purchase both jerseys. How much money (in dollars) should Gabe bring with him? For the purposes of this question, take Φ -1 (0 . 95) = 1 . 65 and Φ -1 (0 . 975) = 1 . 96

## Explanation:

We want to find a value c so that P [ S + M ≤ c ] = 0 . 975 . M ∼ N (70 , 20 2 ) and S ∼ N (80 , 15 2 ) represent the prices of Mane and Salah jerseys, respectively. Since these are independent, M + S ∼ N (150 , 25 2 ) by adding the parameters. Then, standardizing,

$$\mathbb { P } [ S + M \leq c ] = \mathbb { P } \left [ \frac { S + M - 1 5 0 } { 2 5 } \leq \frac { c - 1 5 0 } { 2 5 } \right ] = 0 . 9 7 5$$

The LHS is now standard normal, so the LHS is Φ ( c -150 25 ) . Therefore, we need to find c such that Φ ( c -150 25 ) = 0 . 975 . Using the inverse CDF, we get that c -150 25 ≤ Φ -1 (0 . 975) = 1 . 96 . Rearranging, c = 150 + 25 · 1 . 96 = 199 .

## 703 Upface Correlation

Company : Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

Suppose that you roll a standard fair 6 -sided die n times. Let X be the random variable representing the number of times you roll a 1 and Y be the random variable representing the number of times you roll a 5 .