that Andy may be assigned to such that Andy has a parking spot.

$$\mathbb { P } \left ( S \cap C \right ) = \mathbb { P } \left ( S , | , C \right ) \mathbb { P } ( C ) \quad = \frac { 2 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 5 4 } { 2 2 0 } \ = \frac { 3 } { 5 5 }$$

Case D: There are no empty parking spots at 3:00 PM. There are 220 -54 -11 -1 = 154 orderings remaining. As previously discussed, if no parking spots are empty at 3:00 PM, then there are 3 L s that Andy may be assigned to such that Andy has a parking spot.

$$\mathbb { P } \left ( S \cap D \right ) = \mathbb { P } \left ( S , | , D \right ) \mathbb { P } ( D ) \quad = \frac { 3 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 1 5 4 } { 2 2 0 } \ = \frac { 7 } { 3 0 }$$

Now, we may employ the law of total probability.

$$\mathbb { P } ( S ) = \mathbb { P } ( S \cap A ) + \mathbb { P } ( S \cap B ) + \mathbb { P } ( S \cap C ) + \mathbb { P } ( S \cap D ) \quad = 0 + \frac { 1 } { 1 8 0 } + \frac { 3 } { 5 5 } + \frac { 7 } { 3 0 } \ = \frac { 5 8 1 } { 1 9 8 0 }$$

The complement of the union of these events is:

$$1 - \frac { 5 8 1 } { 1 9 8 0 } = \frac { 1 3 9 9 } { 1 9 8 0 }$$

## 672 100 Lights

Company : Jane Street, SIG, Citadel

## Prompt:

There are 100 light bulbs in a room, each initially off and with its switch by its side. The first person enters and flips every switch. The second person enters and flips every other switch. The third person enters and flips every third switch. This process continues until the 100-th person flips every 100-th switch, or the last switch. How many lights are on?

## Explanation:

The i -th bulb is switched by person j if j is a factor of i . Thus, the i -th bulb will remain on if it has an odd number of factors. We call a number that has an odd number of factors a perfect square, and there are 10 perfect squares from 1 to 100.

## 673 Careful Coin Question

Company :

## Prompt:

Your friend has a fair coin. They flip it 100 times consecutively and record the sequence of outcomes. Your goal is to guess the sequence that your friend flipped. You may ask a single Yes/No question to your friend