More generally, if p k is what the k th person to flip had in their bank right before paying out, p k -(8 . 96 -p k ) = 1 . 28 · 2 -(7 -k ) , meaning that

$$p _ { k } = \frac { 1 . 2 8 \cdot 2 ^ { - ( 7 - k ) } + 8 . 9 6 } { 2 }$$

However, this person already had their money doubled k -1 times from the k -1 people that came before them, so this implies that

Plugging in k = 1 , 2 , . . . , 7 yields that

$$x _ { 1 } = 4 . 4 9 , x _ { 2 } = 2 . 2 5 , x _ { 3 } = 1 . 1 3 , x _ { 4 } = 0 . 5 7 , x _ { 5 } = 0 . 2 9 , x _ { 6 } = 0 . 1 5 , x _ { 7 } = 0 . 0 8$$

Adding the squared values up and multiplying by 10000 yields the result of 269374 .

## 132 2 Below I

Company : Jane Street, Citadel

## Prompt:

You and friend play a game where you both select an integer 1 -100 . The winner receives $1 from the loser. The winner is the player who selects the strictly higher number. If there is a tie, then nothing happens. However, a player can also win by selecting a value exactly 2 below the larger integer. For example, if you select 80 and your friend selects 82 , you are the winner in this case. Assume both you and your friend play optimally. The optimal strategy here is a mixed strategy, where you select a random value X from some appropriately determined distribution. Find Var ( X ) .

## Explanation:

Suppose you were planning to select a value n . Note that n +3 is strictly better than n , as n +3 will beat all integers n would beat, as well as the integer n +2 . Therefore, whenever you can select n , you should select n +3 . This means that your strategy should be to select 98 , 99 , or 100 with some probabilities.

By the symmetry of the game, your friend should also select those values with the same probabilities. In particular, if you select 98 -100 with equal probability, no matter what probabilities your friend selects 98 , 99 , and 100 with, the expected payout for each player is 0 by symmetry. This is because we see that 98 is beat by 99 , 99 is beat by 100 , and 100 is beat by 98 , so each of the three outcomes is dominated by one other outcome.

Furthermore, if you select a non-uniform distribution on 98 , 99 , 100 for your values, there exists a strategy

$$x _ { k } = \frac { 1 . 2 8 \cdot 2 ^ { - ( 7 - k ) } + 8 . 9 6 } { 2 ^ { k } }$$