light bulb and then turn it on again when he is chosen for his next fight. The memorylessness property says that the excess life of this bulb (i.e. how long the bulb has left of life) is still exponential with the same parameter, so this is a valid way to encapsulate the constancy of strength after a fight.

One can show fairly easily that if X 1 ∼ Exp ( λ 1 ) and X 2 ∼ Exp ( λ 2 ) , then P [ X 1 &lt; X 2 ] = λ 1 λ 1 + λ 2 . We apply this with λ 1 = 1 /x and λ 2 = 1 /y i.e. X 1 and X 2 respectively represent the light bulbs of gladiators with strengths x and y . We thus get that

$$\mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } < X _ { 2 } ] = \frac { 1 / x } { 1 / x + 1 / y } = \frac { y } { x + y }$$

which represents the probability the strength y gladiator wins, exactly like we wanted!

During the tournament, Bob and Alice have one light bulb active at all times. The winner is exactly who has the greater total lighting time (the sum of all time intervals where a gladiator for their team has their light bulb active). Since the exponentials are memoryless, the order of selection is irrelevant. Therefore, there is no optimal strategy.

## 698 Double Dice Payoff

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You roll two fair dice. If you get double 6 s, you receive $100 . If you get a 6 and a non6 , you lose $ x . If you get anything else, you reroll both dice until you get double 6 s or a 6 and non6 . What is the maximum value of x where the game still has non-negative expected value?

## Explanation:

First we need to find the probability of every outcome. Double 6 s occur with probability ( 1 6 ) 2 = 1 36 . We can count the number of 6 and non6 combos there are and youâll see there are 10 ( 1 -5 on the first die and 6 on the other with two different orderings). This gives that event a probability of 10 36 . Since the other event is just a recurrence of these two events, we can normalize the probabilities of the two events we care about. We do this by finding the probability of our target event and divide it with the probability of the non-recurrent events. So the probability of a double 6 s in this case can be updated to 1 36 ( 1 36 + 10 36 ) = 1 11 . This gives the probability the game ends in a 6 and non 6 of 10 11 . Finally, we can solve for x . The profit equation here is 100 · 1 11 -x · 10 11 which has to be greater than or equal to 0 . Thus 100 11 ≥ 10 x 11 . The maximum value of x is thus $10 .