## Prompt:

Bill and Bob are simultaneously flipping coins with probability 1 / 3 of heads per flip. Find the probability that Bill obtains his first heads in strictly less flips than Bob.

## Explanation:

Let X 1 and X 2 represent the number of flips needed for Bill and Bob, respectively, to obtain their first heads. We are going to generalize this to probability p of heads per flip. We immediately know that X 1 , X 2 ∼ Geom ( p ) by the fact we are looking for a waiting time until first heads. One might guess that the answer to this is 1 2 , but the issue is that there is positive probability of equality, so we first need to subtract that out, and then we can use exchangeability to claim that P [ X 1 &gt; X 2 ] = P [ X 1 &lt; X 2 ] .

First, let's find P [ X 1 = X 2 ] . This is simple enough to find, as X 1 and X 2 are independent, so

$$\mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = X _ { 2 } ] = \sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { \infty } \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = X _ { 2 } \, | \, X _ { 2 } = n ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 2 } = n ] = \sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { \infty } \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = n ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 2 } = n ]$$

as we want the probability X 1 = X 2 and we know that X 2 = n . The previous work is just by the Law of Total Probability applied by conditioning on X 2 . We have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = n ] = \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 2 } = n ] = p ( 1 - p ) ^ { n - 1 }$$

by the fact that X 1 and X 2 are IID. Thus, previous sum becomes

$$\sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { \infty } p ^ { 2 } ( 1 - p ) ^ { 2 n - 2 } = p ^ { 2 } \sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { \infty } \left [ ( 1 - p ) ^ { 2 } \right ] ^ { n - 1 }$$

by rearranging slightly. We do this because we want to get an n -1 in the exponent of the interior since the lower index of the sum is n = 1 and we would ideally by able to apply the geometric sum formula. The sum inside is now geometric with r = (1 -p ) 2 &lt; 1 , so the above expression becomes p 2 1 -(1 -p ) 2 = p 2 p (2 -p ) =

/negationslash

$$\frac { p } { 2 - p } . \text { This is } \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = X _ { 2 } ] , \text { so}$$

$$\mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } \neq X _ { 2 } ] = 1 - \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = X _ { 2 } ] = 1 - \frac { p } { 2 - p } = \frac { 2 ( 1 - p ) } { 2 - p }$$

/negationslash

. This is P [ X 1 = X 2 ] , and this is partitioned into two events, namely that P [ X 1 = X 2 ] = P [ X 1 &gt; X 2 ]+ P [ X 1 &lt; X 2 ] . This is because if they are not equal, then one of them must be larger than the other. Since X 1 and X 2 are IID, they are exchangeable, so we have that the should have equally likely probabilities of being larger or smaller than one another. Thus, the two probabilities on the RHS are equal. Substituting in our found value on the LHS for P [ X 1 = X 2 ] , we have that 2(1 -p ) 2 -p = 2 P [ X 1 &lt; X 2 ] , meaning that P [ X 1 &lt; X 2 ] = 1 -p 2 -p . Since there is positive probability of equality between X 1 and X 2 , it makes sense that the probability slightly

/negationslash

/negationslash