## Prompt:

Fix positive integers n and k , and suppose X 1 , . . . , X n ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. We say that there is an increasing k-chain starting from position i if X i &lt; X i +1 &lt; · · · &lt; X i +( k -1) . Find n such that the expected number of increasing 6 -chains among X 1 , . . . , X n is 1 .

## Explanation:

Let's first consider what the maximum number of possible increasing chains is. Index n -( k -1) is the last spot at which we can have an increasing chain of length k . This is because we would need spots n -( k -1) , . . . , n to be increasing order. After that spot, there are not k open spots to be increasing. Therefore, let I i be the indicator of the event that starting that index i , X i &lt; · · · &lt; X i + k -1 . This is saying that there is an increasing chain of length k starting from position i . Then T = I 1 + · · · + I n -( k -1) gives the total number of strictly increasing chains of length k . Thus, E [ T ] = ( n -( k -1)) E [ I 1 ] by linearity of expectation and exchangeability of the random variables. E [ I 1 ] is just the probability that the values are in strictly increasing order. This is the same as randomly permuting those k indices and having the indices be lined up in increasing order, which occurs with probability 1 k ! . Therefore, our answer is n -( k -1) k ! when we have n random variables.

Now, we know that k = 6 in this example and we want this expectation to be set equal to 1 , so we want to find n satisfying n -5 6! = 1 , so n = 6! + 5 = 725 .

## 931 Averaging Squares

Company : None

## Prompt:

Let X = [1 , 2 , ..., 2023 , 1 2 , 2 2 , ..., 2023 2 ] . What is the median of X ?

## Explanation:

There are a total of 4046 numbers, so the 2023 rd and 2024 th terms are required to find the median. Note that 44 2 = 1936 , so there are an additional 44 squared terms before 2023 ; that is, 2023 is the 2067 th term. Thus, the 2023 rd term is 2023 -44 = 1979 and the 2024 th term is 1980 . The average between these terms is the median, 1979 . 5 .

## 932 Quick Summation

Company : None