## Explanation:

The population variance must be known, though one could make an argument that it can be estimated accurately by the sample variance when n ≥ 30 . The sample must of course be a random sample of the population. The distribution of the sample mean must be approximately normal, which suggests n ≥ 30 by the Central Limit Theorem. However, if it is given that the population distribution is normal, then it is not necessarily the case that n ≥ 30 must be satisfied to proceed with the Z test. Therefore, our answer is 123 .

## 358 Arbitrage Detective III

Company :

## Prompt:

There are 5 strikes available on the QG June TSLA options chain (expiring in one month). There are also 5 more strikes available on the July TSLA options chain, with the same strikes at 165 , 170 , 175 , 180 , and 185 . We will only consider the call side in this question.

Suppose we are expecting some volatility in the coming earnings report, and our June call chain is priced at $21 , $17 , $14 , $12 , $10 (increasing in strike price). We look out at the July chain and our prices are $20 , $17 , $14 , $13 , $11 .

Is there an arbitrage opportunity? If so, enter the minimum amount you are guaranteed to make, if no opportunity exists, enter -1 .

## Explanation:

Once again, we can exploit an improperly priced options chain. As our time to expiration increases, the cost of our option must also increase in turn. For the same underlying, at the same strike, our contract with the closer expiry will always be worth less than its same strike counterpart with a further expiration date.

Using this knowledge, we can see that the $165 dollar strike is mispriced. In order to capitalize, we simply need to sell the front month at $165 , giving us a credit of $21 , and then buy the back month at $20 . Giving us a net credit of $1 . Using this strategy, we lock in $1 of profit per share.

This is then multiplied by 100 , giving us our final total of $100 .