## Explanation:

It is known that given X 1 , . . . , X n ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID and S i,n is the i th smallest, 1 ≤ i ≤ n , among X 1 , . . . , X n , E [ S i,n ] = i n +1 . This also extends now to Unif (500 , 1000) , as this is just a scaling and shifting of a Unif (0 , 1) . Namely, if X ∼ Unif (0 , 1) , 500 X + 500 ∼ Unif (500 , 1000) . Therefore, if S ′ i,n is the i th smallest among n IID Unif (500 , 1000) random variables and S i,n is as above, E [ S ′ i,n ] = 500 E [ S i,n ] + 500 = 500 + 500 i n +1 . In this case, i = n -1 , as we are paid out the second largest bid, so the expected payout with n people is 500 + 500 n -1 n +1 = 1000 ( 1 -1 n +1 ) . The cost of obtaining n people is 10 n . Therefore, our profit, which we can denote as P n , is P n = S ′ i,n -10 n , so E [ P n ] = E [ S ′ i,n ] -10 n = 1000 ( 1 -1 n +1 ) -10 n . We want to find n that maximizes this. Calling this function f ( n ) , we can treat n as continuous and find the value of n that maximizes it by taking the derivative and setting it equal to 0 .

This means f ′ ( n ) = 1000 ( n +1) 2 -10 = 0 . Rearranging yields ( n +1) 2 = 100 , so as n must be positive, n = 9 bidders gives us the maximal expected profit. Plugging this in, E [ P 9 ] = 810 , which is our solution.

## 749 Poisoned Kegs III

Company : Two Sigma, SIG, Five Rings, Goldman Sachs, Jane Street

## Prompt:

A king has 10 servants that bravely risk their lives to test whether or not the wine in n kegs is poisonous. It is known that exactly one of the n kegs is poisonous. If someone drinks any amount of liquor from the poisoned keg, they will die in exactly 1 month. Otherwise, the servant will be fine. The servants only agree to participate in the wine tasting for 1 month. What is the maximum value of n such that the king is guaranteed to have at least a 10% chance to determine which keg among the n is poisoned?

## Explanation:

Using the same idea as Poisoned Kegs II, we can let each of the 10 servants represent a binary indicator for the first 2 10 kegs. Thus, in the first 2 10 kegs, we will know exactly which keg is poisoned. However, now we just need to narrow it down to 10 kegsper possible death sequence. The easiest way to do this is to have each of the 2 10 subsets of servants test 10 different kegs. Then, if some subset of servants die, the king will know that one of those 10 kegs that the subset of servants died to has the poison. Therefore, the king can test 10 times as many kegs if he only wants at least a 10% chance of identifying it. Therefore, the king can test up to n = 2 10 · 10 = 10240 kegs

## 750 Integer Polygon

Company :