## 550 OLS Review III

Company :

## Prompt:

Given the following data, ( x, y ) : ( -2 , 0) , ( -1 , 0) , (0 , 1) , (1 , 1) , (2 , 3) , Bob does a simple linear regression modeling Y = β 0 + β 1 x + /epsilon1 , where E [ /epsilon1 ] = 0 and Var [ /epsilon1 ] = σ 2 . Estimate σ 2 .

## Explanation:

It can be shown that s 2 = SSE n -2 is an unbiased estimator for σ 2 in the case where there are 2 β parameters. First, let's determine the least-squares estimators for the β parameters. We know that

$$\hat { \beta } _ { 1 } = \frac { S _ { x y } } { S _ { n } } ,$$

$$\beta _ { 1 } & = \frac { \bar { s } _ { x x } } { S _ { x x } } , \\ \hat { \beta } _ { 0 } & = \bar { y } - \hat { \beta } _ { 1 } \bar { x } .$$

For our data, we easily find S xy = ∑ n i =1 ( x i -¯ x )( y i -¯ y ) = 7 , and S xx = ∑ n i =1 ( x i -¯ x ) 2 = 10 . Hence ˆ β 1 = 7 10 , and ˆ β 0 = 1 -0 = 1 . We can now compute the sum of squared estimate of errors (SSE) with the following formula:

$$S S E = S _ { y y } - \hat { \beta } _ { 1 } S _ { x y } \\ = 6 - \frac { 7 } { 1 0 } \cdot 7 = \frac { 1 1 } { 1 0 } \\ \Rightarrow \frac { S S E } { n - 2 } = \frac { 1 1 / 1 0 } { 5 - 2 } = \frac { 1 1 } { 3 0 }$$

## 551 Friendly Competition

Company : Optiver, SIG, Old Mission, Citadel, Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

Players 1 and 2 respectively start with $1 and $2 . They flip a coin with probability 2 3 of heads on each toss. Player 1 receives $1 from Player 2 if the coin shows heads. Otherwise, Player 2 receives $1 from Player 1. Find the probability Player 2 goes broke first i.e. Player 1 wins.

## Explanation:

Let p be the probability player 1 wins. If the first flip is tails, then player 1 loses automatically. If we go HT , then we are back where we started and player 1 has probability p of winning. This occurs with probability 2 3 · 1 3 = 2 9 by independence of the coins. If we go HH , then player 1 wins. This occurs with probability 2 3 · 2 3 = 4 9 Therefore, by Law of Total Probability, p = 2 9 p + 4 9 . Solving this for p yields p = 4 7 .