## 572 Inheritance Split

Company :

## Prompt:

A father leaves a $100 inheritance to his two sons, Abe and Ben. If one-third of Abe's inheritance is to be taken from one-fourth of Ben's inheritance, the difference would be $11 . How much did Abe receive?

## Explanation:

Let x be the amount Abe receives. Then 100 -x is what Ben receives. The line there says that 100 -x 4 -x 3 = 11 . Solving for x here algebraically yields x = 24 .

## 573 Two Puts

Company :

## Prompt:

We have the underlying stock value

P

0

with initial value

= 4

S

5

.

.

S

0

= 32

We want to price a vanilla put with strike the

K

2

= 33

put. Give the answer to

## Explanation:

We want to find the best super-replication.

the

K

= 33

put.

decimal points.

Since

35

&gt;

and a vanilla put with strike

K

2

K

1

= 33

.

= 35

with initial

Give the best estimate for the price of

33

, the

K

= 35

put should always be greater than

So, a reasonable price estimate is

4

.

5

.

However, we can do better.

the strikes by each other and find a more accurate super-replication.

In fact, we can go long estimate.

We have:

33

35

(4

.

K

2

/K

5) = 4

1

units of the

24

.

.

K

= 35

put.

This will give a closer super-replication and an

Note, this super-replication does not hold when

S

T

&lt;

0

stock price cannot go negative (though futures can!) and we do not need to worry about this.

## 574 9 Sum II

Company : None

## Prompt:

How many integers at most 100000 have digits that sum to 9 ? Some examples include 81 , 144 , and 13212 .

.

However, a

In fact, we can divide

2