## Prompt:

How many ways are there to get a score of 40 -40 (deuce) in tennis? Scores in tennis follow 0 , 15 , 30 , 40 .

## Explanation:

Both players need to win exactly 3 points against each other to obtain a deuce. This means that out of a length of 6 points, 3 come from Person 1 and 3 come from Person 2. Thus we can choose 3 positions out of the total 6 points for Person 1 to score which gives us ( 6 3 ) which yields 20 ways.

## 535 Proper Statement

Company : AQR

## Prompt:

A proper statement of length 2 n is a string of characters consisting of ( , ) , { and } , where each of parentheses and curly braces are individually properly opened and closed. For example, () {} and { () } are proper statements, while { ( } ) and (( } ) are not proper statements. Let P n be the number of proper statements of length 2 n . Find P 5 .

## Explanation:

We solve this for more general n . The trick here is to refer back to the idea of Catalan numbers being proper parenthesizations of just () . There are C n such parenthesizations of length 2 n . Then, for each pair of parentheses, we have the option to select it as either parentheses or curly braces. Therefore, there are 2 n such ways we can select each pair being either parentheses or curly braces. Thus, P n = C n · 2 n . In particular, P 5 = C 5 · 2 5 = 1 6 · ( 10 5 ) · 2 5 = 1344 .

## 536 Lead Count

Company : Optiver

## Prompt:

Suppose you flip a fair coin 10 times. We say a certain outcome (heads or tails) is leading after n fl ips if there are strictly larger than n 2 flips of that outcome within the first n fl ips. Find the probability that the outcome of the first flip of the coin is leading after 10 fl ips.

## Explanation:

Fix the first flip arbitrarily since it is equally likely to be heads or tails. Without loss of generality, say it is heads. Then we would need at least 5 heads in the next 9 fl ips to be leading, as we need strictly more than