our given distribution, we have that M X ( θ ) = ( 1 -θ 3 ) -8 . This can be easily derived or also can be just taken from a table of known MGFs. Thus, M X (1) = ( 3 2 ) 8 , while M X (2) = 3 8 , so

$$V a r ( e ^ { X } ) = 3 ^ { 8 } - \left ( \frac { 3 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { 1 6 }$$

Therefore, a = 3 , b = 8 , c = 16 , so abc = 384 .

## 867 Three Consecutive Heads

Company : Citadel, Jane Street, Squarepoint Capital, WorldQuant, Two Sigma, SIG

## Prompt:

On average, how many fair coin tosses will it take to observe three consecutive heads?

## Explanation:

Let x be the expected number of coin tosses it takes to observe three consecutive heads. On the first toss, there is a 1 2 probability that you observe a tail and essentially start over with 0 consecutive heads, except that your expected number of coin tosses is x + 1 since you wasted a toss observing a tail. There is a 1 4 probability of receiving HT and essentially starting over with 0 consecutive heads, except that your expected number of coin tosses is x +2 since you wasted two tosses observing HT. There is a 1 8 probability of receiving HHT and essentially starting over with 0 consecutive heads, except that your expected number of coin tosses is x +3 since you wasted three tosses observing tails HHT. Finally, there is a 1 8 probability of receiving HHH and requiring three tosses. Thus, we can write this as:

$$x = \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( x + 1 ) + \frac { 1 } { 4 } ( x + 2 ) + \frac { 1 } { 8 } ( x + 3 ) + \frac { 1 } { 8 } \times 3 x = 1 4$$

## 868 Squid Game I

Company :

## Prompt:

10 contestants are arranged into a line on a bridge and in front of them lay ten left tiles and ten right tiles side by side. In order to cross the bridge, the contestants must cross 10 tiles, and at each step, the person in front must pick either the left or right tile to step on. However, for each left right tile pair, there is exactly one sturdy tile and one faulty tile, but the contestants cannot tell them apart. The contestants cross the bridge in their assigned order with the first person picking either the left or right tile, and continuing to lead unless either a faulty tile is picked (resulting in elimination) or person one reaches the other side. If the first person is eliminated before reaching the other side, the person second in line assumes the lead picking