## 1020 Dinner Party

Company : None

## Prompt:

At a dinner party, everyone shakes hands with everyone else exactly once. How many people are at the party if there are exactly 120 handshakes?

## Explanation:

Let N be the number of people at the party. The first person will shake N -1 hands since he does not shake hands with himself. The second person will shake hands with N -2 more hands since he does not shake hands with himself and already shook hands with the first person. This pattern continues. We can employ the Gaussian sum to define the total number of handshakes that occur as a function of N :

$$( N - 1 ) + ( N - 2 ) + \dots + 1 = \frac { N \times ( N - 1 ) } { 2 } = 1 2 0$$

Solving for N , we find that the total number of people at the party is 16 .

## 1021 Farming Emergency

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

A farming company has been hired to till 11 plots of land. 4 farmers are initially hired. It takes them a total of 5 hours to till 2 of the plots. The farming company decides to enlist more farmers to finish up the job within the next 12 hours. What is the minimum number of additional farmers the company could have sent so that the other 9 plots of land are tilled in the next 12 hours? You may assume all plots takes the same time to till, individual farmers work at equal constant rates, and that they will work at the same efficiency regardless of the number of farmers there.

## Explanation:

Let x be the rate at which an individual farmer tills per hour. There were 20 "farmer hours" of work to till 2 plots of land, as there were 4 farmers working for 5 hours. Therefore, 20 x = 2 , so x = 1 10 .

Our job is to find the minimal integer n such that 1 10 · (4 + n ) · 12 ≥ 9 .