## 613 Plane Boarding

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

100 people are in line waiting to board a plane. Let us define the i th passenger in line as having a ticket for plane seat i . Intoxicated, the first passenger in line picks a random seat on the plane to sit on with equal probability. The other 99 passengers are sober, and will sit in their assigned seat unless taken, in which they will sit in a random free seat. You are the last person in line. What is the probability that you end up in your assigned seat?

## Explanation:

This can be solved with symmetry. Consider your seat and the drunk passenger's seat. Either your seat is taken before the drunk passenger's seat, or the drunk passenger's seat is taken before your seat. Because there is nothing special about your seat or the drunk passenger's seat, each passenger that has to make a random choice of seats will have an equal probability of filling either your seat or the drunk passenger's seat, assuming both are vacant. Hence, the probability is 1 2 .

## 614 Circular Delete

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

The numbers 1 , 2 , . . . , 2000 are put on the circumference of a circle in clockwise increasing order. You start at the integer 1 and delete it. Then you, move clockwise to 2 and keep it. Afterwards, you are going to repeat in this fashion of alternating between deleting integers and keeping integers repeatedly until you reach the last integer of a given rotation. Afterwards, you start again by deleting the first integer in the new cycle, keeping the second, etc. Find the last integer to be deleted from the circle.

## Explanation:

At the first step, you are keeping all integers n with n ≡ 0 mod 2 . Afterwards, you are keeping all integers with n ≡ 0 mod 4 . More generally, at step k , you are keeping all integers n ≡ 0 mod 2 k . Therefore, we just need to find the largest k such that 2 k ≤ 2000 . 2 k will thus be our last integer. This is k = 10 , which corresponds to 2 10 = 1024 .

## 615 Multiplicative Mix

Company : Belvedere Trading