## Prompt:

An energy company is drilling for oil. There is a 30% chance the well will be successful and a 70% chance it will fail. If they find oil, the stock is worth $100 . If they fail its worth $20 . You own a right (but not an obligation) to buy the stock for $50 the day after they find out if the well is successful. What is the fair value of this option?

## Explanation:

We only exercise our option if the well is successful. We save $50 in this case and it occurs with probability 0 . 3 . Therefore, the answer is 50 · 0 . 3 = 15 .

## 987 Uniform Order I

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . , X 20 be IID Unif (0 , 1) random variables. Compute P [ X 1 &gt; max { X 2 , X 10 , X 15 } ]

## Explanation:

This question is really asking us the probability that X 1 is the largest of the 4 random variables X 1 , X 2 , X 10 , and X 15 . Since the random variables are IID, they are exchangeable. Therefore, by exchangeability, it is no more or less likely that X 1 is the largest of the 4 than any other random variable, so the 4 random variables have equal probability of being largest, implying this probability is 1 4 .

## 988 Bank Account Arbitrage

Company :

## Prompt:

Let's say you have two bank accounts, B 1 with interest rate 0 . 04 and B 2 with interest rate 0 . 02 (annual interest rates). Both are compounded continuously. Both bank accounts start with initial value B 1 = B 2 = 1 . What is the minimum amount of money you are guaranteed to make in 1 year, assuming you can only deposit / borrow integer numbers in both bank accounts? You have $0 initially and cannot just deposit your money into one of the bank accounts. Round to 2 decimal points.

## Explanation:

The arbitrage can be seen immediately. We borrow from the bank ( 1 ) with the lower interest rate and deposit money into the bank ( 2 ) with the higher interest rate. Our deposit will cover the interest we owe to the bank 1 while still giving us some profit.