## Explanation:

There are 7 even values from 1 -15 . For B to be able to select Chip 12 , A must have not selected it. Given that A selects 5 of the 7 even values, the probability that they selected Chip 12 is 5 7 , so the probability A did not select it is 2 7 . After A is done selecting, there are now 10 chips remaining in the bag. As B selects 5 of these 10 , the probability that B selects Chip 12 is 1 2 , so our answer is 2 7 · 1 2 = 1 7 .

## 1137 Equal Unequal Game

Company : Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

Abby and Ben are playing a coin flipping game. Abby has a coin with probability p of showing heads on each flip and Ben has a fair coin. Abby flips her coin first, and then they alternate until one of them shows a heads. The person who flips the first heads is declared the winner. If it is known that Abby and Ben have equal chances of winning the game, find p .

## Explanation:

Let A be the event that Abby wins the game. Abby either gets the head on her first flip, both her and Ben get tails on the first flip and Abby gets it on her second flip, etc. The probability that Abby gets the head on the k th flip means that both her and ben obtain heads for the first k -1 fl ips and then Abby flips a head on her k th flip. The probability of this is p ( 1 -p 2 ) k -1 . This is because of the independence of each of their flips and taking the complement of their respective heads probabilities. We now just sum this up from k = 1 to ∞ to get

$$\mathbb { P } [ A ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } p \left ( \frac { 1 - p } { 2 } \right ) ^ { k - 1 } = \frac { p } { 1 - \frac { 1 - p } { 2 } } = \frac { 2 p } { 1 + p }$$

We want this probability to be equal to 1 2 , as we want Abby and Ben to have equal winning probabilities. Therefore, we must find p such that 2 p 1 + p = 1 2 . Solving this yields p = 1 3 .

## 1138 Careful Side Choice

Company :

## Prompt:

You and a friend are each given a die. Both of you are allowed to independently determine how many sides each of your individual dice have. You may select 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , or 6 sides. The sides are labeled 1 -k if you select k sides. Each side is equally likely to appear among the number of sides you select. Then, both of you roll your dice. If the sum of the two upfaces is at most 7 , you receive a payout equal to the upface of your