## Explanation:

Each lily pad must cover 20480 10 square feet to cover the entirety of the pond. Since the size of each pad is 2 N after N days of growth, then:

$$2 ^ { N } = \frac { 2 0 4 8 0 } { 1 0 } \Rightarrow N = 1 1$$

## 239 Prime Pair

Company : Marshall Wace, SIG, Jane Street

## Prompt:

You roll two fair 6 -sided dice. Each of the two dice have the first 6 prime numbers on the sides. Find the probability that the sum of the two upfaces is also prime?

## Explanation:

The numbers on the sides would be 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 11 , and 13 . Therefore, the sum of the two upfaces has to be between 4 and 26 , inclusive. The prime integers in this interval are 5 , 7 , 11 , 13 , 17 , 19 , and 23 . We now need to determine how each prime can be obtained from these dice. One thing to note is that 2 must be one of the rolls, as all other values on the die are primes larger than 2 , which must be odd. Therefore, the outcomes are just primes p such that p -2 is also a prime and p -2 ≤ 13 . The values of p where this holds true is p = 5 , 7 , and 13 . Each of these have two permutations of the die outcomes that yield that sum. Therefore, 6 such outcomes of the 6 2 = 36 yield a prime sum, so our answer is

$$\frac { 6 } { 3 6 } = \frac { 1 } { 6 }$$

## 240 Make Your Martingale II

Company :

## Prompt:

Let W t be a standard Brownian Motion and let X t = W 3 t -ctW t for some constant c . Find the value of c that makes X t a martingale.

## Explanation:

Using Ito's Formula on f ( t, w ) = w 3 -ctw , we have that

$$d X _ { t } = f _ { t } ( t , w ) d t + f _ { w } ( t , w ) d W _ { t } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } f _ { w w } ( t , w ) d t$$