to the area of the entire board. The area of the entire board is 9 π and the area of the inner ring is 1 π . Thus, the probability that the dart lands in the inner ring is:

$$\frac { \pi } { 9 \pi } = \frac { 1 } { 9 }$$

We now want to calculate the probability that at least one of our three darts will land in this inner circle. To do this, we will calculate the probability of not getting any darts in the inner ring, which is:

$$\left ( \frac { 8 } { 9 } \right ) ^ { 3 } = \frac { 5 1 2 } { 7 2 9 }$$

Finally, we use the complement rule, 1 -P ( A c ) = P ( A ) to come to the answer:

$$1 - \frac { 5 1 2 } { 7 2 9 } = \frac { 2 1 7 } { 7 2 9 }$$

## 473 Variance Product

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that X and Y are independent random variables with E [ X ] = 4 , E [ Y ] = -3 , E [ X 2 ] = 20 , and E [ Y 2 ] = 45 . Compute Var ( XY ) .

## Explanation:

Var ( XY ) = E [ X 2 Y 2 ] -( E [ XY ]) 2 . By independence, E [ XY ] = E [ X ] E [ Y ] = -12 . The first term can be obtained by the same idea that E [ X 2 Y 2 ] = E [ X 2 ] E [ Y 2 ] = 20 · 45 = 900 by independence. Thus, Var ( XY ) = 900 -( -12) 2 = 756 .

## 474 Turducken Hunt

Company : None

## Prompt:

Mordecai and Rigby are hunting for a Turducken. They both start at x = 0 and see a Turducken 1 meter away. Mordecai and Rigby start walking at the same rate towards x = 1 . They each have only one bullet in their guns and they can take it out and shoot at any point along the walk. Given that they are at position x , Mordecai has probability m ( x ) = x of hitting the Turducken with his shot. Rigby has probability r ( x ) = x 2 of hitting the Turducken. If they shoot at the same time and both miss or hit the Turducken, then they just start again with a new Turducken. If exactly one of them hits the Turducken, then that person gets to keep it for Thanksgiving dinner. They don't neccesarily need to shoot at the same time. Assuming both Mordecai and Rigby apply an optimal strategy, what is Mordecai's chance of keeping the Turducken? The answer is in