## Explanation:

The intrinsic value of an option is known as the amount you would gain if you could exercise at this moment. If you could exercise now, you would gain max( S T -K, 0) = 5 -2 = 3 . This then leaves 4 . 7 -3 = 1 . 7 as the extrinsic value, or the value present in the option due to time (options with a longer time until expiry have more value, as these options have more potential to expire in-the-money and have real intrinsic value).

This gives us

## 1113 Up or Down

Company : SIG, Virtu Financial

## Prompt:

If you have an asset that goes up or down 20% each day from its price the day prior with equal probability, whatâs the probability that after 10 days the assetâs price is unchanged?

## Explanation:

If there was a price rise on k of the days, then for the price to be unchanged, we would need (1 . 2) k (0 . 8) 10 -k = 1 , as the price went down the other 10 -k days. Equivalently, this means that (1 . 2) k = (1 . 25) 10 -k , which does not hold for an integer k . Therefore, it is impossible for this to occur.

## 1114 Crossing the River

Company :

## Prompt:

During the Turkish stampede in Thrace, a small detachment found itself confronted by a wide and deep river. However, they discovered a boat in which two children were rowing about. It was so small that it would only carry the two children, or one grown up person. There are a total of 358 officers and soldiers. How many times does the boat pass from shore to shore if all the officers and soldiers need to get across, and that the two children are the last ones in joint possession of the boat?

## Explanation:

In order to get one children across the river, proceed as follows:

$$3 ^ { 2 } + 1 . 7 ^ { 2 } = 1 1 . 8 9$$