## 144 Close Dice II

Company : None

## Prompt:

On average, how many times does a fair 6 -sided die need to be rolled to obtain two consecutive rolls that differ by at most 1 ?

## Explanation:

Let E i be the expected time for this to happen given that our current roll is i and E be the expected value of the event we are interested in. Then

$$E = 1 + \frac { E _ { 1 } + E _ { 2 } + E _ { 3 } + E _ { 4 } + E _ { 5 } + E _ { 6 } } { 6 }$$

by Law of Total Expectation. By the symmetry of the fair die, E 1 = E 6 , E 2 = E 5 and E 3 = E 4 . Note that E 2 = E 3 for the same reason as in Close Dice I. Using the substitution yields E = 1 + E 1 + E 2 + E 3 3 .

/negationslash

It remains to calculate equations for E 1 , E 2 , and E 3 . For E 1 , we get the equation E 1 = 1 + 1 6 E 1 + 1 6 E 2 + 1 3 E 3 . This is because if we roll a 1 or 2 , we are done. If we roll a 3 or 4 , they are same the EV, so we combine per above. If we roll a 5 or 6 , we just get E 2 and E 1 respectively. By similar logic, we have E 2 = 1 + 1 6 E 1 + 1 6 E 2 + 1 6 E 3 and E 3 = 1 + 1 3 E 1 + 1 6 E 2 . Solving these linear equations yields E 1 = 288 115 , E 2 = 246 115 , and E 3 = 252 115 . Plugging these back into the equation for E , E = 1 + 262 115 = 377 115 .

## 145 Magic Doors

Company : None

## Prompt:

John is trapped in a room with five indistinguishable doors. Behind two of the doors are paths to freedom; one path is two miles long, and the other path is five miles long. Behind three of the doors are paths that magically lead back to the room; one path is three miles long, another path is four miles long, and the final path is one mile long. If John returns to the room, the order of the doors are scrambled and the five doors are once again indistinguishable. How many miles will John travel before reaching freedom?

## Explanation:

When John is inside the room, the probability of John selecting any one of the five doors is 1 5 . If John selects one of the doors that leads back to the room, he has the same probability of picking any one of the five