## Explanation:

In the 1-tiger case, the tiger will eat the sheep since it does not need to worry about being eaten after. In the 2-tiger case, either tiger knows that if they eat the sheep, then they will be eaten by the other tiger once they become a sheep. Thus, neither tiger will eat the sheep. In the 3-tiger case, the sheep will be eaten since each tiger will realize that once it eats the sheep and turns into a sheep, there will be 2 tigers left, and neither tiger will eat in the 2-tiger case. In the 4-tiger case, each tiger understands that if it eats the sheep, then it will be eaten after turning into a sheep, since they know that the sheep is eaten in the 3-tiger case. Following this logic, we can naturally show that if the number of tigers is even, the sheep will not be eaten. If the number is odd, the sheep will be eaten.

## 628 Sphere Slicer

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider the set of vertices

$$V = \{ ( 0 , 0 , 1 ) , ( 1 , 0 , 0 ) , ( 0 , 1 , 0 ) , ( - 1 , 0 , 0 ) , ( 0 , - 1 , 0 ) , ( 0 , 0 , - 1 ) \}$$

on the unit sphere. Line segments are drawn between each pair of vertices. If we choose a normal vector uniformly at random, then the corresponding plane with that normal vector passing through the origin splits the sphere into two parts. Find the expected number of edges that the plane passes through.

## Explanation:

There will be ( 6 2 ) = 15 total edges on the sphere. Label these edges 1 -15 , and let X i be the indicator of the event that the plane intersects the i th edge. Then T = X 1 + · · · + X 15 gives the total number of edges that are intersected by the plane.

Suppose that we have two points on our sphere. We want to find the probability that the segment between them is intersected by the plane. The key here is that we draw a vector from the origin to the two points that we consider. The angle between those two vectors will be somewhere in (0 , π ) . The cosine of the angle between the two points is the dot product of their vectors, as they are already magnitude 1 . Therefore, if the two points are labelled 1 and 2 and their corresponding vectors are v 1 and v 2 , we have that the angle θ between them satisfies cos θ = v 1 · v 2 . In other words, θ = arccos( v 1 · v 2 ) . As the angle with the origin of our normal direction is uniform on (0 , π ) we have that the probability of intersection is just arccos( v 1 · v 2 ) π . Our final task then is to compute this for every pair of points.