The probability of moving to an edge spot is 2 3 , while the probability of moving to a central spot is 1 3 . From an edge spot, there is a 1 5 probability of return to the corner. From the central spot, there is an 1 8 probability of return to the corner. Thus, the probability of return to the corner in 2 moves is just 2 3 · 1 5 + 1 3 · 1 8 = 7 40

## 1055 Optimal Marbles I

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Two players, say A and B , play the following game: Both players have 100 marbles and may put anywhere between 1 and 100 marbles in the box each. This decision is not revealed to the other player. Then, they draw 2 marbles with replacement between trials. If the marble belongs to A , then assuming that A put a marbles in the box, A is paid 100 -a monetary units from a third party. Similarly if the marble belongs to B , then assuming B but b marbles in the box, B is paid 100 -b monetary units from a third party. Assume both players play optimally. Find the expected total payout of player A .

## Explanation:

We can first make some simplifications to the game. Firstly, if the strategy is optimal, then if this game were to be repeated many times, they would not change their strategy. Therefore, the optimal strategy for the game where there are 2 consecutive marble draws is the same as the optimal strategy for the game with one draw. Then, we just multiply the expected profit by 2 to represent the two draws. Furthermore, as this game is symmetric for the two players, their optimal strategy will be the same. This point will be important later.

Let A ( a, b ) be the expected profit that A obtains with player A putting in a balls and B putting in b balls. Namely, for the one draw game,

$$A ( a , b ) = \frac { a } { a + b } \cdot ( 1 0 0 - a )$$

As player a draws his ball with probability a a + b and 100 -a is the payout. Let's fix b and find the a that is the best response to this b . In other words, given b , what a optimizes A ( a, b ) ? To do this, we take the partial derivative of A ( a, b ) in a and treat a as continuous for now. We will then account for discreteness at the end.