and the expected wait is 5 minutes as per the previous part of this question. Therefore, by Law of Total Expectation, the total wait time is

$$3 5 \cdot \frac { 7 } { 1 6 } + 5 \cdot \frac { 9 } { 1 6 } = \frac { 1 4 5 } { 8 }$$

## 669 Circular Slice II

Company : None

## Prompt:

A random angle θ 1 ∼ Unif (0 , 2 π ) is selected. Then, the arc of the unit circle that sweeps out θ 1 radians is marked red going counterclockwise starting from (1 , 0) . Two other angles θ 2 , α ∼ Unif (0 , 2 π ) IID are also selected. Afterwards, an arc of length θ 2 radians starting from the point that is α radians counterclockwise of the origin is swept out and colored blue. When the blue and red regions intersect, they form a purple region. Given that there is at least one purple region, find the probability there is exactly one purple region.

## Explanation:

From Circular Slice I, we know that the probability that the two regions are disjoint is 1 6 . Therefore, the probability they are not disjoint (i.e. intersect at least once) is 5 6 . Now, we need to compute the probability that they intersect at exactly one part. We know the probability they are disjoint is 1 6 . Thus, we just need to find the probability that they intersect at possible parts (the endpoints of 0 radians and θ 1 radians). Just as in Circular Slice I, we will treat these as Unif (0 , 1) random variables instead of Unif (0 , 2 π ) random variables by scaling them down.

For there to be an intersection at the left end, we need α &lt; θ 1 . This is because then the start of the blue region will still be in the red region. To have an intersection at the right endpoint i.e. at proportion 1 of the circle, we need α + θ 2 &gt; 1 . This is because this arc needs to wrap back around to the point (1 , 0) . Therefore, to find the probability of 2 intersections, we are looking for P [ θ 1 &gt; α , θ 2 &gt; 1 -α ] . Similar to the previous question, we will need to condition on the value of α to obtain this probability. This means that

$$\mathbb { P } [ \theta _ { 1 } > \alpha , \theta _ { 2 } > 1 - \alpha ] = \int _ { 0 } ^ { 1 } \mathbb { P } [ \theta _ { 1 } > \alpha , \theta _ { 2 } > 1 - \alpha \, | \, \alpha = x ] f _ { \alpha } ( x ) d x$$

Evaluating the interior probability, this becomes P [ θ 1 &gt; x, θ 2 &gt; 1 -x ] = P [ θ 1 &gt; x ] P [ θ 2 &gt; 1 -x ] = x (1 -x ) . Therefore, the integral is ∫ 1 0 x (1 -x ) dx = 1 6 .

Combining all of the above, we now see the probability of exactly one purple region is 1 -1 6 -1 6 = 2 3 , so by the formula for conditional probability, given that there was at least one purple region, the probability