## Prompt:

n

points are selected randomly at uniform around a circle. What is the probability that all n points are on the same semicircle for n = 100 ? The answer is in the form a b c

for integers a, b, c &gt; 0 with b minimal. Find a + b + c .

## Explanation:

Suppose we already have the n points selected on the circle. Choose one of those points, let's call it A . We draw a line through A and O , the center of the circle; this diameter forms two semicircles. To prevent overcounting, we will only consider the semicircle that start from A in the counterclockwise direction. Then, each of the n -1 remaining points has a 1 2 chance of being within that semicircle. Repeating this for all n points, we find that the solution is simply n 2 n -1 . Plugging in n = 100 , we find our answer to be 100 2 99 . Therefore, the answer to our question is 100 + 2 + 99 = 201 .

## 1004 Expected Increase

Company : None

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . be a sequence of IID random variables with some continuous PDF f ( x ) . Let N be the time at which the sequence stops decreasing i.e. the first value n such that X 1 ≥ X 2 ≥ · · · ≥ X n -1 but X n -1 &lt; X n . Find ln( E [ N ]) .

## Explanation:

Recall for non-negative integer-valued random variables X that E [ X ] = ∞ ∑ k =1 P [ X ≥ k ] . We should apply this

X 1 ≥ X 2 ≥ · · · ≥ X k -1 , which occurs with probability 1 ( k -1)! since each of the X i random variables are to N . Therefore, E [ N ] = ∞ ∑ k =1 P [ N ≥ k ] . All that remains is to find P [ N ≥ k ] . The event { N ≥ k } means that

IID and have continuous distributions. Therefore, E [ N ] = ∞ ∑ k =1 1 ( k -1)! = e by shifting the index back 1 and noting that this is the Taylor Expansion for e x evaluated at x = 1 . We know ln( e ) = 1 , so our answer is 1 .

## 1005 Car Bidding I

Company : None