## Prompt:

Suppose that you run linear regression on some dataset and obtain the coefficients ˆ β OLS . Recall that if X is the data and σ 2 is the variance of the IID normal errors, then Var ( ˆ β OLS ) = σ 2 ( X T X ) -1 . If you were to run linear regression again on the dataset where you double the values of each point in your original dataset and obtain new coefficients ˆ β ′ OLS , find the constant c such that Var ( ˆ β ′ OLS ) = c Var ( ˆ β OLS ) . If no such constant exists, enter -1 .

## Explanation:

When we double the data, we are just replacing the matrix X with the matrix X ′ = 2 X . However, we also have to replace σ with 2 σ . Accordingly, X ′ T X ′ = 4 X T X by simple matrix multiplication. Then Therefore, (2 σ ) 2 (4 X T X ) -1 = 1 4 · 4 · σ 2 ( X T X ) -1 = σ 2 ( X T X ) -1 , which proves our statement.

## 639 Basic Die Game V

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Alice rolls a fair 6 -sided die with the values 1 -6 on the sides. She sees that value showing up and then is allowed to decide whether or not she wants to roll again. The re-roll costs $1 . If she decides to stop, Alice receives a payout equal to the upface of the die. If she rolls again, she receives a payout equal to the upfaces of the second roll. Assuming optimal play by Alice, what is her expected payout on this game?

## Explanation:

The expected value of a fair die roll is 3 . 5 . The cost of the re-roll is $1 . Therefore, the expected payout if Alice decides to roll again is 2 . 5 . This means Alice should accept any value at least 3 on her first roll and roll again otherwise. Namely, if P is Alice's payout and X 1 is the value of the first die roll, then

$$\mathbb { E } [ P ] = \mathbb { E } [ P \, | \, X _ { 1 } \leq 2 ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } \leq 2 ] + \mathbb { E } [ P \, | \, X _ { 1 } > 2 ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } > 2 ]$$

The two probabilities are 1 / 3 and 2 / 3 , respectively. Then, E [ P | X 1 ≤ 2] = 2 . 5 by our discussion above about the expected payout upon rolling again. E [ P | X 1 &gt; 2] = 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 4 = 4 . 5 , as each of the values &gt; 2 are equally-likely. Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } [ P ] = \frac { 1 } { 3 } \cdot \frac { 5 } { 2 } + \frac { 2 } { 3 } \cdot \frac { 9 } { 2 } = \frac { 2 3 } { 6 }$$

## 640 Pairwise Digit Sums I

Company : Optiver