until he/she is eliminated (or reaches the other side), and so on. The winner of the game is the fi rst person to reach the other side. Which position in line (1-indexed) should a contestant choose if they are playing optimally to win?

## Explanation:

Since a given contestant is not able to distinguish the tile, we can assume that each contest guesses a tile incorrectly with p = 0 . 5 . Therefore, the expected number of tiles until a person falls is 1 p = 2 . Therefore, we should expect that after 5 people have gone, 10 tiles will have been chosen with the last being chosen incorrectly by the 5th person meaning we should choose to be in slot 6.

## 869 Ship Stops

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

You are sailing from one island to another. Uninterrupted travel between the two islands takes 12 minutes. However, there are 5 wave checks between the islands. Four of the wave checks will stop you with 25% probability each. These wave checks will add 1 minute to your total travel time if you are stopped. However, the last wave check stops you with 75% probability. This wave check will add 4 minutes to your travel time if you are stopped. Find the expected duration (in minutes) of the trip between the two islands.

## Explanation:

Let X i be the number of minutes that wave check i , 1 ≤ i ≤ 5 , stops you for. Let wave check 5 be the special one. Then T = 12 + X 1 + · · · + X 5 gives the total duration of your trip. By Linearity of Expectation, E [ T ] = 12 + E [ X 1 ] + · · · + E [ X 4 ] + E [ X 5 ] . For X 1 , . . . , X 4 , we know they have the same distribution of 0 with probability 75% and 1 with probability 25% . Therefore, E [ X i ] = 0 . 25 · 1 + 0 . 75 · 0 = 0 . 25 for each of 1 ≤ i ≤ 4 . Lastly, X 5 is 0 with probability 25% and 4 with probability 75% , so E [ X 5 ] = 0 . 75 · 4+0 . 25 · 0 = 3 . Adding all of these up, our total is E [ T ] = 12 + 4 · 0 . 25 + 3 = 16 .

## 870 Normal LOTUS II

Company :

## Prompt:

$$I \text { comp.} \\ & \text { Let } X \text { and } Y \text { be jointly continuous with } \text { joint } \text { PDF } \ f ( x , y ) = 1 0 y e ^ { - 5 x } I _ { ( 0 , \infty ) } ( x ) I _ { ( 0 , 1 ) } ( y ) . \ \text { Compute } \mathbb { E } \left [ \frac { X ^ { 2 } } { Y } \right ] .$$