to the left end of the third wire. The right end of the third wire can then be joined with any other remaining wire's right end. Back to the left end. There are 7 remaining ends on the left side. Of these, 6 are viable connections. Repeating this process, we get a final answer of

$$\frac { 8 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 6 } { 7 } \cdot \frac { 4 } { 5 } \cdot \frac { 2 } { 3 } = \frac { 1 2 8 } { 3 1 5 }$$

## 947 Projection Matrix Ranked

Company :

## Prompt:

Fix a non-zero vector v ∈ R n . Define the projection matrix onto v as P v = vv T || v || 2 . Compute ( rank ( P v )) 2 + ( null ( P v )) 2 as a function of n . Your answer should be in the form an 2 + bn + c for integers a, b, and c . Find a + b + c .

## Explanation:

Interpreting the projection matrix geometrically, we know that for a given vector x ∈ R n , P v x is going to result in the component of x that is parallel to v . In other words, P v x ∈ Sp { v } . This is because

$$P _ { v } x = \frac { 1 } { | | v | | ^ { 2 } } v v ^ { T } x = \frac { 1 } { | | v | | ^ { 2 } } v ( v ^ { T } x ) = \frac { ( v \cdot x ) } { | | v | | ^ { 2 } } v = c v$$

We make the substitution v T x = v · x midway. We can exchange the order since the dot product results in a scalar. Since we get a linear scaling of v , we can conclude that rank ( P v ) = 1 , as it is the span of 1 vector. By the rank-nullity theorem, we get that null ( P v ) = n -1 , as rank ( P v ) + null ( P v ) = n . Therefore, our solution is ( n -1) 2 +1 2 = n 2 -2 n +2 . This means the answer to the question at hand is 1 -2 + 2 = 1 .

## 948 Coin Flipper Ruin

Company : None

## Prompt:

Vishnu and Jason have $1000 and $500 in their respective bank accounts. They flip a fair coin repeatedly. If heads, Vishnu gives Jason $1 . Else, Jason gives Vishnu $1 . What is the probability that Jason runs out of money first?

## Explanation:

Either Jason or Vishnu will run out of money first. Let p denote the probability that Jason runs out of money first. Naturally, 1 -p is Vishu's probability of running out of money first, leaving Jason with 1500 . After n coin tosses, Jason should expect to neither lose nor gain any money, since the coin is fair; in other