P [ X &gt; Y ] + P [ X &lt; Y ] + P [ X = Y ] = 1 . Substituting in the equality above, P [ X &lt; Y ] = 1 -P [ X = Y ] 2 . It just remains to find P [ X = Y ] .

$$\sup _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \text { simply enough, we just sum over all possible values of $k$ that both $X$ and $Y$ can be, so $\mathbb{P} [ X = Y ] = \\ \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \mathbb { P } [ X = k ] \mathbb { P } [ Y = k ] & = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { 4 ^ { k } } = \frac { \frac { 1 } { 4 } } { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 4 } } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } . \text { Thus, $\mathbb{P} [ X < Y ] = \frac { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 3 } } { 2 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } \text { as well.}$$

Substituting all of this back into our original summation for E [ X | X &lt; Y ] , we get

$$\mathbb { E } [ X \, | \, X < Y ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } k \cdot 3 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 4 ^ { k } } = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } k \cdot \frac { 3 } { 4 } \cdot \left ( \frac { 1 } { 4 } \right ) ^ { k - 1 } = \frac { 4 } { 3 }$$

We evaluate the last sum by noting that the term after the k is just the PMF of a Geom ( 3 4 ) random variable, so we actually showed that X | X &lt; Y ∼ Geom ( 3 4 ) , and thus the expectation is 1 3 4 = 4 3 .

## 790 Josephus' Dilemma

Company : Belvedere Trading

## Prompt:

2000

soldiers get captured in war, including yourself. Rather than feeding information to the opposing side, you and your fellow soldiers decide it is honorable to kill one another until there is one person standing and they can kill themselves. However, you know that if you are the last person still alive, thereâs a good chance that you can escape and be free. The process in killing other soldiers is as follows: all soldiers stand in a circle and Person 1 starts with a sword. Person 1 kills Person 2 and gives the next soldier the sword (in this case Person 3). This process continues going around the circle till thereâs one person left. What position in this circle should you stand to be the last person alive?

## Explanation:

This is a classic brain teaser known as the Josephus Problem. The best way to solve this problem is to start with simpler cases and see which position is the last alive. When thereâs only 1 person, Person 1 is the last to be alive (obviously). 2 people, still Person 1. 3 people, Person 3 is the last to remain alive. 4 people, Person 1 is last. If you keep doing this, youâll notice that when there are 2 n soldiers, Person 1 is the last to be alive. The greatest power of 2 that's less than or equal to 2000 is 1024 . This means that 976 soldiers have to be killed and then the person that has the sword will be the one to last be alive. After n people have been killed, the 2 n +1 Person will have the sword. For our case, this comes out to 2 ∗ 976 + 1 = 1953 . Thus you