## Explanation:

Let C represent the event that the 5 th fish is caught and F represent the event that the bear is fishing on the 5 th turn. By the Law of Total Probability,

$$\mathbb { P } [ C ] = \mathbb { P } [ C \, | \, F ] \mathbb { P } [ F ] + \mathbb { P } [ C \, | \, F ^ { c } ] \mathbb { P } [ F ^ { c } ]$$

P [ F ] is just the probability that the bear has caught at most 2 fi sh in the first 4 turns. This probability is just ( 4 0 ) + ( 4 1 ) + ( 4 2 ) 2 4 = 11 16 Therefore, P [ F c ] = 1 -11 16 = 5 16 .

Then, we know that P [ C | F ] = 1 2 by the question. Additionally, P [ C | F c ] = 0 , as if the bear isn't fishing at the 5 th turn, it can't be caught. Therefore, P [ C ] = 11 16 · 1 2 +0 = 11 32 .

## 352 Coin Flipping Competition I

Company : None

## Prompt:

Ty and Guy are both flipping fair coins until the respectively obtain their first heads. Find the probability that it takes Ty at least 4 times as many flips to obtain his first heads as Guy.

## Explanation:

We know that if T and G represent the number of flips needed for Ty and Guy, respectively, to obtain their first heads, T, G ∼ Geom ( 1 2 ) IID. We are looking for P [ T ≥ 4 G ] . The easiest way to do this is to condition on G = g and use Law of Total Probability. Therefore,

$$\mathbb { P } [ T \geq 4 G ] = \sum _ { g = 1 } ^ { \infty } \mathbb { P } [ T \geq 4 G \ | \ G = g ] \mathbb { P } [ G = g ]$$

By the definition of the PMF of G , P [ G = g ] = 1 2 g . Now, P [ T ≥ 4 G | G = g ] = P [ T ≥ 4 g ] . To evaluate this probability, let's think about what this event says. This means that it takes Ty at least 4 g fl ips to obtain his first heads. This is equivalent to saying that all of the first 4 g -1 fl ips are tails, and this occurs with probability 1 2 4 g -1 . This is exactly the probability of interest there.

All that is left is to compute the sum. P [ T ≥ 4 G ] = ∞ ∑ g =1 1 2 4 g -1 · 1 2 g = 2 ∞ ∑ g =1 ( 1 32 ) g . This is a geometric series with ratio 1 32 starting at the first term, so this evaluates to 2 · 1 32 1 -1 32 = 2 31 .