and ( 10 -k 3 ) ways to pick 3 candies that are not that color candy. Therefore, E [ C i ] = 1 -( 10 -k 3 ) ( 10 3 ) if candy i has k candies of that color. Therefore, the expectations for the 4 colors in the order they were presented is 1 -( 4 3 ) 120 = 29 30 , 1 -( 8 3 ) 120 = 8 15 , and 1 -( 9 3 ) 120 = 3 10 for the last two. Adding these up, E [ T ] = 2 . 1

## 875 Binary Dot

Company :

## Prompt:

Let v 1 and v 2 be two vectors of length 10 . The 10 elements of v 1 are IID Bernoulli ( 1 2 ) random variables. The 10 elements of v 2 are IID Bernoulli ( 3 4 ) random variables. Find the probability that v 1 · v 2 is odd, where the · is dot product of two vectors. The probability is in the form 1 2 -1 a n , where a is prime. Find an .

## Explanation:

We're going to solve this for general n . Let p n be this probabilities when v 1 , v 2 ∈ R n . For n = 1 , the probability is just 3 4 · 1 2 = 3 8 , as this implies both of the values generated must be 1 .

Now, let's suppose we know p n . Then p n +1 either means we had an even sum with n dimensions (occurring with probability 1 -p n ) and we obtain 1 for the ( n +1) st product OR we had an odd sum with n dimensions (occurring with probability p n ) and we obtain 0 for the ( n +1) st product. This means p n +1 = 3 8 · (1 -p n ) + 5 8 p n = 1 4 p n + 3 8 . This is a recurrence relation that can be explicitly solved. However, starting from p 1 = 3 8 ,

$$p _ { 2 } = \frac { 3 } { 3 2 } + \frac { 3 } { 8 } = \frac { 1 5 } { 3 2 } , p _ { 3 } = \frac { 1 5 } { 1 2 8 } + \frac { 3 } { 8 } = \frac { 6 3 } { 1 2 8 }$$

$$\text {We can see that } p _ { 1 } = \frac { 3 } { 8 } \, = \, \frac { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 4 } } { 2 } , p _ { 2 } \, = \, \frac { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 4 } } { 2 } , p _ { 3 } \, = \, \frac { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 4 ^ { 3 } } } { 2 } , \, \text {so we conjecture } p _ { n } \, = \, \frac { 1 - 4 ^ { - n } } { 2 } , \, \text {so} \\ p _ { 1 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } - \frac { 1 } { 2 \cdot 4 ^ { 1 0 } } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } - \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 2 1 } } . \text {Thus, } a = 2 \, \text {and} \, n = 2 1 , \, \text {meaning} \, a n = 4 2 .$$

## 876 Quintuple Value

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

35 cards are in a deck numbered 1 -35 . One card is dealt uniformly at random and you are paid out 5 times the value on the card. Find the expected payout if you draw 2 cards from this deck.