## 566 Find the Triangle

Company :

## Prompt:

The sides and height of a triangle are four consecutive whole numbers. What is the area of the triangle?

## Explanation:

Let's look at triangles that have consecutive sides. For example, 3 , 4 , 5 . Afterwards, we can calculate the height of the triangle. We can do this with Heron's formula.

$$S \text { with Heron} \, S \text { formula.} \\ A = 0 . 2 5 * \sqrt { ( a + b + c ) } \\ \frac { 1 } { 2 } b h = 0 . 2 5 * \sqrt { ( a + b + c ) } \\ h = \frac { 0 . 5 } { b } \sqrt { ( a + b + c ) } \\ \text {consecutive sides, we obtain a triangle}$$

Guessing and checking for various consecutive sides, we obtain a triangle with sides 13 , 14 , 15 , making 14 the base, the height 12 , and the area 84 .

## 567 Rectangles on Chess Board

Company :

## Prompt:

How many rectangles can be formed from the squares in an 8 × 8 square chess board? Squares also count as rectangles.

## Explanation:

Think about what rectangles represent. Rectangles represent two pairs of start and end points (up/down and left/right). When we analyze the problem in this aspect, the problem boils down to choosing a start and end edge out of the lateral and horizontal edge. There are 9 lateral edges to choose from for the lateral start and ends of the rectangle and 9 horizontal edges to choose from for the horizontal start and ends of the rectangle. Thus the problem becomes

## 568 Lowest Target

Company :

$$\begin{pmatrix} 9 \\ 2 \end{pmatrix} ^ { 2 } = 3 6 ^ { 2 } = 1 2 9 6$$