$$\text {Define } p = \lim _ { n \to \infty } p ( n ) . \, \text {Compute } \frac { p - p ( 1 0 ) } { p } .$$

## Explanation:

Our sample space here is the collection of all pairs of intervals. Note that we have two cases here for each of the two intervals we form. First, we could have that our interval is a singular point, which occurs if a = b or c = d . There are 2 n +1 ways for this to occur. Alternatively, we can have that a = b or c = d . In this case, for every 2 distinct values we select from S n , exactly one arrangement of them will make a valid interval. Therefore, there are ( 2 n +1 2 ) ways to pick two distinct points from S n . Adding these two cases together, there are

$$\frac { ( 2 n + 1 ) ( 2 n ) } { 2 } + ( 2 n + 1 ) = \begin{pmatrix} 2 n + 2 \\ 2 \end{pmatrix}$$

ways to form an interval, so there are ( 2 n +2 2 ) 2 ways to pick the two intervals.

Let a | represent an endpoint of an interval. There are 2 n +2 locations a | can be put, as we can put them in any spot from before -n to after n , which is 2 n +2 spots. For example, with n = 1 , | -1 | 01 represents a = b = -1 , whereas | -10 | 1 represents a = -1 and b = 0 . Additionally, we see that a proper nesting is really just a way to select 4 distinct spots from the 2 n +2 , as we can't have the endpoints of I 1 be equal to either of the endpoints of I 2 . Therefore, there are ( 2 n +2 4 ) ways to pick the intervals such that they don't overlap. Thus, the probability is

$$p ( n ) = \frac { \binom { 2 n + 2 } { 4 } } { \binom { 2 n + 2 } { 2 } ^ { 2 } } = \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot \frac { 2 n ( 2 n - 1 ) } { ( 2 n + 2 ) ( 2 n + 1 ) } \\ \intertext { i n t o n d s t o n d s t o r } \intertext { a n d } \intertext { i n t o n d s t o n d s t o r } \intertext { e x t o n d s t o n d s t o r }$$

As n →∞ , the term with n in it tends to 1 , so lim n →∞ p ( n ) = p = 1 6 .

Therefore,

$$\frac { p - p ( 1 0 ) } { p } = \frac { \frac { 1 } { 6 } - \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot \frac { 2 0 \cdot 1 9 } { 2 2 \cdot 2 1 } } { \frac { 1 } { 6 } } = \frac { 4 1 } { 2 3 1 }$$

## 514 Mathematical Birthday

Company :

## Prompt:

A man who lived in the 19 th and 20 th century once said that he was a 2 + b 2 years old in the year a 4 + b 4 , 2 m years old in the year 2 m 2 , and 3 n years old in the year 3 n 4 . All variables here are integers. Find abmn .

/negationslash

/negationslash