## 348 Make Your Martingale I

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . be IID random variables that take the values ± 1 with equal probability. Fix a constant c . Let M 0 = 1 and M n = M n -1 e X n + c . There is a unique value of c such that M n is a martingale with respect to the natural filtration F n = σ ( X 1 , . . . , X n ) . Find c . The answer will be in the form -log ( ae b + ce d ) for integers a, b, c, d . log here refers to the natural logarithm. Find a + b + c + d .

## Explanation:

Our goal is to compute E [ M n +1 | M n ] as a function of c . Afterwards, we must find the value of c so that the conditional expectation is M n . Doing this, E [ M n +1 | M n ] = E [ M n e X n 1 + c | M n ] = M n e c E [ e X n +1 | M n ] by taking out constants and what is known. Note that X n +1 is independent of M n , so E [ e X n +1 | M n ] = E [ e X n +1 ] . The computation of this is quite simple as X n +1 only takes two values, so

$$\mathbb { E } [ e ^ { X _ { n + 1 } } ] = e \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } + e ^ { - 1 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

$$T h e r e f o r e , \, \mathbb { E } [ M _ { n + 1 } \, | \, M _ { n } ] = M _ { n } e ^ { c } \cdot \frac { e + e ^ { - 1 } } { 2 } .$$

To make M n a martingale, we need all the constants to simplify to 1 . Namely, this means e c = 2 e + e -1 . Therefore, c = log ( 2 e + e -1 ) = -log ( 1 2 e + 1 2 e -1 ) . For our question, the answer is a + b + c + d = 1 2 + 1 2 +1 -1 = 1 .

## 349 Regional Manager I

Company : None

## Prompt:

The regional sales manager of a large paper corporation claims that his salespeople are averaging no more than 15 deals per week, which is subpar compared to the neighboring regions. To check this, he records the number of deals that 36 random salespeople make on a random week. He finds the mean and variance of the number of deals that the 36 random salespeople made to be 17 and 9, respectively. With these values, he runs a statistical test to see if his employees are making significantly more deals than 15. What is the value of the appropriate test statistic he used? Assume simple random sampling, variance homogeneity, and that the number of deals closed is approximately normally distributed.