## Prompt:

Aaron flips a fair coin until he receives an equal amount of heads and tails. For example, HHTHTT would correspond to 6 fl ips. What is the reciprocal of the expected number of flips Aaron does?

## Explanation:

Our first flip will either turn up to be H or T . Therefore, the difference (in absolute value) between the number of H and T will be 1 after 1 fl ip. Let H n and T n , respectively, be the number of heads and tails that occur in the first n fl ips. If N represents our stopping time, then N = min { n &gt; 0 : H n = T n } .

The key here is that we consider S n = | H n -T n | , the absolute difference between the number of heads and tails in the first n fl ips. We can see that S n is a symmetric random walk on the non-negative integers with a reflecting boundary at 0 . This is because we either move left or right 1 with equal probability at each step when S n &gt; 0 . These correspond to either the difference between heads and tails increasing or decreasing by 1 at each step. Furthermore, the fact that this is a reflecting random walk is irrelevant to this question. This is because we want to stop at the first time where we return to S n = 0 , when H n = T n and don't care what happens after that. Therefore, our question simplifies to finding the expected return time to 0 in a symmetric random walk on the integers starting from 1 . Mathematically, we want E [ N ] , where N = min { n &gt; 0 : S n = 0 } and we start at S 0 = 0 .

There are some further simplifications that can be made. Since the random walk is shift-invariant, this is the expected time starting from 0 to hit -1 in our random walk. Since our random walk is symmetric, the expected time to hit -1 is the same as the expected time to hit 1 . If R n is a symmetric random walk on the integers (recall that we no longer care that it is on the positive integers), then we want E [ N 1 ] , with N 1 = min { n : R n = 1 } .

Suppose that E [ N 1 ] &lt; ∞ . As we can represent R n = n ∑ i =1 X i , with each X i being ± 1 with equal probability IID (this is the sum of left and right steps), by Wald's Identity, E [ R N 1 ] = E [ N 1 ] E [ X 1 ] . We know that the LHS is 1 with probability 1 by the definition of N 1 . By a direct calculation, we know E [ X 1 ] = 0 . Therefore, if E [ N 1 ] were finite, the LHS would be 1 and the RHS 0 , leading to a contradiction. Thus, this expectation must be infinite and the answer is 0.

## 706 Bread Slicer I

Company : None