This is because there are n -5 people that need money compared to the previous week. The second statement says that

$$\frac { x } { n + 4 } = \frac { x } { n } - 1$$

Therefore, the goal is to solve these two equations simultaneously. In the first equation, multiplying by n ( n -5) on both sides yields nx = x ( n -5) + 2 n ( n -5) , which simplifies to 5 x = 2 n ( n -5) = 2 n 2 -10 n . Multiplying by n ( n + 4) on both sides in the second equation, nx = x ( n + 4) -n ( n + 4) , which simplifies to 4 x = n ( n + 4) = n 2 + 4 n . Subtracting twice of the second equation from the first equation yields that -3 x = -18 n , which means that x n = 6 .

## 458 Deja Vu

Company : None

## Prompt:

Find the expected number of distinct faces observed when rolling a fair 6 -sided die before rolling a face previously observed.

## Explanation:

We solve this using the classic trick E [ X ] = ∞ ∑ k =1 P [ X ≥ k ] for non-negative integer-valued random variables X . Let X be the number of distinct faces showing up. We now need to find P [ X ≥ k ] for k = 1 , 2 , . . . , 6 . We know for k ≥ 7 this is 0 since there are only 6 sides on the die.

P [ X ≥ 1] = 1 , as you have to roll at least one distinct side to be able to repeat it. Now, for P [ X ≥ 2] , we need to roll any value besides our first face before the first face again. This is determined within one roll, and the probability of this is 5 6 , as there are 5 values that haven't been selected yet. For P [ X ≥ 3] , we need to obtain 2 distinct faces, which occurs with probability 5 6 , and then we need to roll another distinct face on the next turn, which occurs with probability 2 3 . Therefore, P [ X ≥ 3] = 5 6 · 2 3 = 5 9 .

$$Continuing this pattern, \mathbb { P } [ X \geq 4 ] & = \frac { 5 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } = \frac { 5 } { 1 8 } , \mathbb { P } [ X \geq 5 ] = \frac { 5 } { 1 8 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 3 } = \frac { 5 } { 5 4 } , \text { and } \mathbb { P } [ X \geq 6 ] = \frac { 5 } { 5 4 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 6 } = \frac { 5 } { 3 2 4 } . \\ \text {Therefor, } \mathbb { E } [ X ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 6 } \mathbb { P } [ X \geq k ] = 1 + \frac { 5 } { 6 } + \dots + \frac { 5 } { 3 2 4 } = \frac { 8 9 9 } { 3 2 4 } .$$

## 459 Game Show III

Company : Akuna