## 1085 Ping Pong Tournament I

Company : Five Rings, Two Sigma

## Prompt:

50

people are competing in a ping pong tournament where there is only one ping pong table. The competitors are numbered 1 through 50 . Suppose that if two competitors meet, the one with the larger number wins. Two competitors are chosen at random, and the loser is removed from the tournament. The winner moves on to the next round, where their opponent is chosen at random. This process is repeated until one person is left (a total 49 rounds will be played). Compute the probability that competitors 49 and 50 play in the final round.

## Explanation:

When competitor 50 appears, they will beat out all other competitors until they win the tournament. Similarly, if competitor 49 appears before competitor 50, they will beat out all other competitors until they play competitor 50. There are two ways for competitors 49 and 50 to play in the final round: (1) competitor 49 does not play until the final round, or (2) competitor 50 does not play until the final round. Let's consider the first case. Notice that we can rewrite our problem as: 'after ordering numbers 1 through 50, what is the probability that 49 appears last?' This probability is simply 49! 50! = 1 50 . Next, let's consider the second case. Similarly, we can instead solve 'after ordering numbers 1 through 50, what is the probability that 50 appears last?' This probability is again just 49! 50! = 1 50 . Since these two cases are mutually exclusive events, we employ countable additivity to determine the answer to be 1 25 .

## 1086 Skewed

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that X is a continuous random variable with PDF f ( x ) = λ 2 e -λ | x -µ | for all some real constant λ and µ &gt; 0 . Compute the skewness of X i.e. E [ ( X -µ X σ X ) 3 ] , where µ X and σ X are the mean and standard deviation of X . You may assume without proof the first three moments of X are finite.

## Explanation:

To compute the skewness, we must compute a seemingly complicated integral via LOTUS. We use the fact that the mean of this distribution is µ , which you can clearly see is finite because of the fact that the tails are exponentially decaying and it is even about µ . Therefore, the mean must be µ . To compute the skewness,