By the Law of Total Probability (since A,A c together form a partition of Ω ),

$$\mathbb { P } ( G ) & = \mathbb { P } ( G \cap A ) + \mathbb { P } ( G \cap A ^ { c } ) \\ & = \mathbb { P } ( G | A ) \mathbb { P } ( A ) + \mathbb { P } ( G | A ^ { c } ) \mathbb { P } ( A ^ { c } ) \\ & = \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 3 } + \frac { 3 } { 4 } \frac { 2 } { 3 } \\ & = \frac { 7 } { 1 2 } \\$$

## 283 Put Option Price Estimate

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider a European vanilla put option with strike K = 15 . You have access to the following binary puts. A binary put pays 1 at expiry if S T &lt; = K and 0 otherwise. You have access to the following binary puts and their time0 prices, given in the format of ( Strike K, Price P 0 )

(15 , 0 . 83)

(12 . 5 , 0 . 64)

(10 , 0 . 42)

(7 . 5 , 0 . 31)

(5 , 0 . 20)

Give the best estimate for the time0 price of the strike K = 15 put.

## Explanation:

To give the best estimate, we need to find the best lower bound. We can do this by building a step function that subreplicates the put option for all values of S T . Mathematically, the put option can be written as max(15 -S T , 0) . We can bound this on the lower side with a binary put of K = 12 . 5 . However, we need to have 2 . 5 units. The binary put and vanilla put will have the same payout at S T = 12 . 5 .

We can continue this process. We can then long 2 . 5 units of the K = 10 strike binary put. Now, the binary put and vanilla put will agree in payoffs at S T = 12 . 5 and S T = 10 . Repeating this, we can see that we need to long 2 . 5 units of every binary put with strike K &lt; 15 . This gives us the tightest lower bound of:

$$L _ { 0 } = 2 . 5 ( 0 . 6 4 + 0 . 2 4 + 0 . 3 1 + 0 . 2 0 ) = 3 . 9 2 5$$

This is the best lower-bound estimate of a vanilla put.