Label the bins 1 -n and let I i be the indicator that the i th bin is empty after the process. Then N n = I 1 + · · · + I n . By taking expected values and the exchangeability of the indicators, E [ N n ] = n E [ I 1 ] . E [ I 1 ] is just the probability the first bin is empty after the process. This means that all of the balls went into the other n -1 bins on every trial. The probability of this for each individual trial is 1 -1 n . As each ball is independent, E [ I 1 ] = ( 1 -1 n ) n . Therefore, E [ P n ] = ( 1 -1 n ) n .

As ln( x ) is a continuous function, we can evaluate the limit first and apply the logarithm later. lim n →∞ ( 1 -1 n ) n = e -1 by the limit definition of e x . Applying the natural log, our final answer is -1 .

## 711 Lawn Teamwork

Company : Jane Street, SIG

## Prompt:

There are two lawnmowers: Mr. Rabbit can mow a lawn in 1 hour, Mr. Turtle needs 1 hour and 15 minutes. If they work together, how long does it take to mow one lawn (in minutes)?

## Explanation:

Given the information we have, we can solve for the rate at which both men mow a lawn per minute. Mr. Rabbit mows 1 60 of a lawn per minute. Mr. Turtle mows 1 75 of a lawn per minute. We can use rate · time = work done to solve for how long it takes. Let x be the number of minutes it takes for both of them to do one lawn. ( 1 60 + 1 75 ) · x = 1 lawn. Solving for x , we get 100 3 minutes.

## 712 Couples Reunited

Company : None

## Prompt:

9

married couples are standing in a line. They all scatter around and form 9 pairs uniformly at random. Find the expected number of couples that are paired up together.