## Explanation:

A sticky delta model means that the implied volatility is a function purely of the deltas. In other words, we need to find the ∆ of the K = 6 option and plug it into the function to find the implied volatility. We know that Γ is the derivative of ∆ and thus can use a first order approximation. Since we are dealing with S 0 = 4 and K = 4 , the second order term does not matter as Γ is maximized (approximately) for at-the-money options. We also know that ATM options have 0 . 5 delta.

We can then find the new delta with ∆ 1 = 0 . 5 -0 . 03(2) = 0 . 44 . We subtract since the strike is increasing, and we are becoming further out-of-the-money. Out-of-the-money options have a ∆ &lt; 0 . 5 . We then plug this into the function: f (0 . 44) = ( . 44 -. 5) 2 + . 3 = . 31

## 579 Pizza Munching

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

Garrett loves eating pizza, but enjoys savoring the slices too. The time it takes for him to eat a pizza slice is uniformly distributed between 1 and 5 minutes. If he has been eating for 2 minutes and still isn't done, find the probability that he finishes the slice in the next minute.

## Explanation:

Let T be the amount of time that Garrett takes to eat his slice of pizza. We know that T ∼ Unif (1 , 5) from the question. We know he has spent at least 2 minutes eating his slice, and we want the probability he finishes in the next minute, so we want P [ T ≤ 3 | T ≥ 2] . By the definition of conditional probability, this is

$$\frac { \mathbb { P } [ 2 \leq T \leq 3 ] } { \mathbb { P } [ T \geq 2 ] } = \frac { \frac { 1 } { 4 } } { \frac { 3 } { 4 } } = \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

## 580 Soccer Bets

Company : SIG, Optiver

## Prompt:

You are betting on the outcome of a soccer match. Team Quant has 2 : 1 odds (you get $3 back if you win, $2 profit) and Team Guide has 3 : 1 odds. You can also bet that both teams will tie which has 10 : 1 odds. Let A,B, and C be the lowest round bet (can only bet whole dollars) amount you bet on Team Quant, Team Guide, and a tie respectively. Assume that if you are betting, you want to make the same amount no matter the outcome of the game. How much do you profit? If you shouldnât bet on this game, enter 0 .