## Prompt:

What is the sum of the integers from 1 to 50, inclusive?

## Explanation:

There are several solutions to this problem, algebraic and geometric. The most simple is to use the Gaussian sum which can be derived in 2D geometry. The sum of the integers from 1 to n is n × ( n +1) 2 . In this case, the sum is 1275.

## 933 Curious Multiplicand

Company :

## Prompt:

What integer can be multiplied by 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , and 6 and no new digits appear in any of the results? For example, 100 · 10 = 1000 has no new digits appearing in the result after multiplication.

## Explanation:

This is the recurring part of the decimal expansion of the reciprocal of 7 .

$$\frac { 1 } { 7 } \approx . 1 4 2 8 5 7$$

We can see that multiplying these numbers by anything less than 7 will be some multiple of this, and hence shifts the digits around.

## 934 Take and Roll I

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You are given a fair 20 -sided die and 100 actions in a game. The die starts with upface 1 . The two options you can perform are to roll and to take. Performing a roll re-rolls the current upface of the die. Performing a take allows you to cash out the current upface of the die. Note that the game does not end when you perform a take and that you do not have to roll between takes. Therefore, for example, you can just perform 100 takes on the initial $1 upface and walk away with $100 guaranteed. Your strategy is to cash out the upface when you roll at least some threshold n for the first time. You fix this n at the beginning of the game. Assuming rational strategy in selecting n , what is your expected payout on this game?