## Explanation:

Denote the sides of the six pancakes s i where 1 ≤ i ≤ 6 . Without loss of generality, let s 1 , s 2 , and s 3 be the toasted sides and s 1 and s 2 be on the same pancake. Out of the six possible sides we could have observed, we are given to have observed one of the three toasted sides, s 1 , s 2 , or s 3 . Of these three sides, two ( s 1 and s 2 ) belong to a pancake that is toasted on both sides. Thus, the probability that the other side of the pancake is also toasted is 2 3 .

## 734 Cube Colorer

Company : SIG, Jane Street, Akuna, Citadel

## Prompt:

Dyann paints the outer faces of a 5 × 5 × 5 cube green and then cuts this large cube up into 125 1 × 1 × 1 cubes. One of the cubes is then uniformly at random selected and rolled. Find the probability that this cube shows a green face up.

## Explanation:

We are going to solve this for a k × k × k cube. In particular, there are 6 k 2 painted sides, as each side has k 2 faces painted. There are 6 k 3 total faces in the cube, as each of the k 3 cubes has 6 faces. Therefore, the probability that we obtained a painted side when we roll the selected 1 × 1 × 1 cube is 6 k 2 6 k 3 = 1 k . In this case, k = 5 , so our answer is 1 5 .

## 735 Significant Others

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that we have a set of data { ( x 1 , y 1 ) , . . . , ( x n , y n ) } , where both x i and y i are real-valued and mean 0 . We fit a linear regression line without intercept to regress y onto x . This yields a line y = ˆ β 0 x + ε , ε being an error term. Given that Corr ( X,Y ) = 1 10 √ 3 , find the smallest value of n so that the results of the hypothesis test H 0 : β 0 = 0 vs. H A : β 0 &gt; 0 are significant at the 95% level. You may use the fact that the 95 and 97 . 5 percentile values are approximately 1 . 645 and 1 . 96 .

## Explanation:

Recall that under the null hypothesis, the distribution of the t -statistic is t n -1 , where t = ˆ β 0 s { ˆ β 0 } . The variance of ˆ β 0 is Var ( ˆ β 0 ) = σ 2 ∑ x 2 i since x i are assumed to have mean 0 . σ 2 is the variance of the error term ε .