## Explanation:

We can think of this as an anagrams problem. Label the students 1 -5 . Each scheduling then corresponds to some anagram of 111222333444555 . Say that student 1 is the student unable to make the first time slot. There are ( 15 3 , 3 , 3 , 3 , 3 ) = 15! (3!) 5 total arrangements of these characters. However, we need to exclude those

$$\frac { 4 } { 5 } \cdot \frac { 1 5 ! } { ( 3 ! ) ^ { 5 } } = 1 3 4 , 5 3 4 , 4 0 0$$

## 228 Mean Babysitter

Company :

## Prompt:

10 kids are really hungry! Their babysitter has 12 units of food to give. However, she decides she only wants to give 4 of the children food. How many ways can she distribute the food units such that 6 of the children are hungry (receive no food), and the other 4 children receive at least 1 unit of food each?

## Explanation:

There are ( 10 4 ) = 210 ways to pick the 4 children that will receive food. Once the 4 children are picked, let x 1 , . . . , x 4 represent the amount of units of food that each of the children get. We want to find the number of non-negative integer solutions to x 1 + x 2 + x 3 + x 4 = 12 with each x i ≥ 1 . This is equivalent to saying that we fix one unit of food per child before we distribute the rest and then distribute the other 8 units of food with no restrictions. Namely, the equation prior has the same number of solutions as the equation x 1 + x 2 + x 3 + x 4 = 8 with each x i ≥ 0 an integer. There are ( 11 3 ) = 165 solutions to this equation by stars and bars. Therefore, the babysitter has 210 · 165 = 34650 ways to distribute the food units.

## 229 Big Mod II

Company : Belvedere Trading

## Prompt:

Compute 15 2021 mod 17 .

that start with 1 . The probability a given string starts with 1 is 1 5 , as there are equal amounts of each of the 5 numbers in the strong. Therefore, 4 5 do not start with 1 . This means 4 5 of all of the schedulings are valid, so our answer is