Suppose we are ordering 3 E s and 9 L s. Consider any arbitrary ordering of the 3 E s and 9 L s. If the ordering allows all spots to be filled by 3:00 PM, then we can assign Andy to 3 of the 9 L s. So, the probability that Andy gets a parking spot conditioned on the event that all spots are filled by 3:00 PM is 1 3 .

In the other case, the probability should intuitively be less than 1 3 , because not all parking spots can be filled. For example, consider the following ordering: LLLLLLLLLEEE . No matter which L we assign Andy to, there is no chance that he will find an empty parking spot.

Now that we've gained a bit more intuition, we can now properly divide our problem up into 4 cases: (A) there are 3 empty parking spots at 3:00 PM, (B) there are 2 empty parking spots at 3:00 PM, (C) there is 1 empty parking spot at 3:00 PM, and (D) there are no empty parking spots at 3:00 PM. Note that there are a total of ( 12 3 ) = 220 possible orderings of 3 E s and 9 L s. Let S denote the event that Andy finds a parking spot.

Case A: There are 3 empty parking spots at 3:00 PM. The only way for there to be 3 empty parking spots at 3:00 PM is with the following ordering: LLLLLLLLLEEE . This ordering occurs with probability 1 220 . Then,

$$\mathbb { P } \left ( S \cap A \right ) & = \mathbb { P } \left ( S \left | \, A \right ) \mathbb { P } ( A ) \\ & = 0 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 2 0 } \\ & = 0$$

Case B: There are 2 empty parking spots at 3:00 PM. One way for this to occur is if the last two letters are both E , of which there are ( 10 9 ) = 10 possible orderings. But this includes the case where the last three letters are all E , so we must subtract 1 . In addition, LLLLLLLLEELE , LLLLLLLLEEEL work. In this case, there is exactly one L that Andy may be assigned to such that he is able to park. Hence,

$$\mathbb { P } \left ( S \cap B \right ) & = \mathbb { P } \left ( S \left | B \right ) \mathbb { P } ( B ) \\ & = \frac { 1 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 1 1 } { 2 2 0 } \\ & = \frac { 1 } { 1 8 0 }$$

Case C: There is 1 empty parking spot at 3:00 PM. One way for this to occur is if the last letter is an E , which occurs in ( 11 2 ) = 55 orderings. But this includes the case where two or more of the final letters are E , as well as the case LLLLLLLLEELE , so we must subtract 10 + 1 = 11 . In addition, LLLLLLLEEELL , LLLLLLLEELEL , as well as any ordering ending with EEL except for the ordering ending with EEEL (there are ( 9 8 ) -1 = 8 such orderings) work. If one parking spot is vacant at 3:00 PM, then there are 2 L s