THTT and HTHH . Therefore, of the 2 2 k possible sequences of length k , exactly 2 satisfy our event, so P [ T = 2 k ] = 2 2 2 k = 2 4 k . Plugging this into our previous sum,

$$\mathbb { P } [ E ] = 2 \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { 4 ^ { k } } = 2 \cdot \frac { \frac { 1 } { 4 } } { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 4 } } = \frac { 2 } { 3 }$$

## 1050 Cubic Difference

Company :

## Prompt:

Find the smallest positive integer y such that y 2 = a 3 -b 3 for some integers a and b .

## Explanation:

Cubes are very large in difference, so to minimize the actual difference, one may want to consider both positive and negative integers. In particular, listing out the first few squares, we see that they are 1 , 4 , 9 , and 16 . One may note that 2 3 = 8 , so 2 3 -( -2) 3 = 8 -( -8) = 16 = 4 2 , so y = 4 is our solution. We can't do better because of the fact that the cubes grow too quickly, so the differences between them grow too fast after this.

## 1051 Optimizing Aces

Company : None

## Prompt:

Aaron picks an integer k ∈ [1 , 52] . Then, he draws the first k cards from a standard, shuffled 52-card deck. Aaron wins a prize if the last card he draws is an ace and if there exists exactly one ace in the remaining cards. What k should Aaron pick?

## Explanation:

Consider an ordering of 52 cards. In order for Aaron to win a prize, (1) the k -th card must be an ace, (2) there must be exactly two aces in the first k -1 cards, and (3) there must be exactly one ace in the last 52 -k cards. Treating all cards as distinguishable, we find the following function of k that describes the probability that Aaron wins a prize.

$$\varphi ( A \aron \ w i n s ) & = \frac { \binom { k - 1 } { 2 } \binom { 5 2 - k } { 1 } 4 ! 4 8 ! } { 5 2 ! } \\ & = \frac { 1 2 \cdot 4 8 ! \cdot ( 5 2 - k ) ( k - 1 ) ( k - 2 ) } { 5 2 ! } \\$$

We arrive at the above expression as follows: (1) choose two cards to assign as aces from the first k -1 cards, (2) assign the k -th card as an ace, (3) choose one card to assign as an ace from last 52 -k cards, and finally,