## Prompt:

Adam is rolling a fair 10 -sided die. He gets to roll repeatedly and may decide when to stop at any time. If he obtains a value that is not 10 on each roll, he adds the upface to his total monetary sum. If he rolls a 10, he loses all of his money. If Adam plays optimally, he should stop once he has at least $ k total. Find k .

## Explanation:

For each roll, there are two possible cases. The first is that he doesn't roll a 10 , which occurs with probability 9 10 . In this case, given he doesn't roll a 10, the values in which he rolls are uniformly distributed over the set { 1 , 2 , . . . , 9 } , which has mean value 5 . This term is contributing 9 10 (5 + E [ X ]) monetary value. Otherwise, he rolls a 10 and profits 0 . To find the stopping point, we want to find the value at which Adam's expected value on the game of rolling another time decreases from what it is presently. Therefore, to find the stopping point, we want to solve E [ X ] = 9 10 (5 + E [ X ]) , which can be solved to get E [ X ] = 45 .

## 83 Say Your Color

Company : WorldQuant

## Prompt:

If WHITE=000, RED-101, BLUE-110, and PURPLE-100, then what three-digit string corresponds to YELLOW?

## Explanation:

The pattern here is that for the first three sounds, 0 means that the vowel is pronounced and 1 means that the consonant is pronounced. This means that YELLOW is 001 .

## 84 Basic Gamma

Company :

## Prompt:

What is the gamma of a deep out-of-the-money call?

## Explanation:

The premium of an option comes from the fact that they can expire in-the-money and have some intrinsic value at expiration. If a call is deep out-of-the-money, then it is unlikely for the call to expire in-the-money and hence the gamma is 0 .