## Explanation:

Label the spots 1 -8 . There are 7 possible starting spots for the first of the two blue birds to land (spots 1 -7 ). Then, if the first bird lands in spot i , the other bird should land in spot i +1 , so the other spot is fixed after. Then, there are 2 ways to order the two blue birds. Afterwards, there are 6! ways to arrange the other 6 birds on the remaining spots. There are a total of 8! ways to arrange the birds, so our answer is

$$\frac { 2 ! \cdot 7 \cdot 6 ! } { 8 ! } = \frac { 1 } { 4 }$$

## 991 R-Squared Range

Company : Two Sigma

## Prompt:

Using OLS, we regress y onto X 1 and find that the model has an R 2 of 0.15. We also regress y onto X 2 but this time the model has an R 2 of 0.2. Let [ min , max ] denote the lower and upper-bound of the R 2 of a model which regresses y onto X 1 , X 2 . Express your answer as max min .

## Explanation:

We start with a basic fact of OLS that an additional predictive variable can never decrease R 2 (as OLS can always set the coefficient to a predictor to be 0!) Therefore, our lower bound is the max of individual R 2 values meaning min = 0 . 2 . As an upper bound, we could have that y = X 1 + X 2 meaning max = 1 . 0 . Note that this does not restrict our freedom of picking X 1 and X 2 so that their individual R 2 are 0.15 and 0.2.

## 992 Take And Roll II

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You are given a fair 20 -sided die and 100 actions in a game. The die starts with upface 1 . The two options you can perform are to roll and to take. Performing a roll re-rolls the current upface of the die. Performing a take allows you to cash out the current upface of the die. Note that the game does not end when you perform a take. However, you must roll the die again before doing another take. Your strategy is to accept any number that is at least some threshold n . This n must be decided in advance and is fixed for the entire game. Assuming rational play in selecting n , find your expected payout.

## Explanation:

To get a baseline to compare to, suppose we just roll and take in an alternating fashion. We will be able to perform this 50 times (as each is one action) and the expected value per roll is 10 . 5 , so our expected payout would be 50 · 10 . 5 = 525 with this strategy.