## Prompt:

Some sheep stealers made a raid and carried off one-third of the flock of sheep, and one-third of a sheep. Another party stole one-fourth of what remained, and one fourth of a sheep. Then, a third party of raiders carried off one-fifth of the remainder and three-fifths of a sheep, leaving 409 behind. What was the number of sheep in the flock?

Note: The question is intentionally worded hard to understand to test your ability to parse through and interpret information.

## Explanation:

Let n be the number of sheep in the flock. Let n 1 and n 2 be the numbers remaining after the first and second raids respectively. We have

$$4 0 9 = n _ { 2 } - \left ( \frac { n _ { 2 } } { 5 } + \frac { 3 } { 5 } \right ) \Rightarrow n _ { 2 } = 5 1 2$$

$$5 1 2 = \left ( n _ { 1 } - \frac { n _ { 1 } } { 4 } \right ) + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \Rightarrow n _ { 1 } = 6 8 3$$

$$6 8 3 = n - \left ( \frac { n } { 3 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } \right ) \Rightarrow n = 1 0 2 5$$

## 758 Make Your Martingale VI

Company :

## Prompt:

Let N ( t ) be a Poisson Process with rate λ &gt; 0 and fix c &gt; 0 . Consider the process S ( t ) = e N ( t ) log( c ) -λ t . Find the constant c such that S ( t ) is a martingale.

## Explanation:

We compute E [ S t | S s ] for any 0 ≤ s ≤ t fi rst. Namely,

$$\mathbb { E } [ S _ { t } \, | \, S _ { s } ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ e ^ { N ( t ) \log ( c ) - \lambda t } \, | \, S _ { s } \right ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ e ^ { ( ( N ( t ) - N ( s ) ) + N ( s ) ) \log ( c ) - \lambda s - \lambda ( t - s ) } \, | \, S _ { s } \right ] \\$$

Now, we can take out e N ( s ) log( c ) -λ s = S s . By the independent increments property of the Poisson Process, the remaining terms inside are independent of S s , so the conditional expectation becomes unconditional.

Then, we have

Finally, we have