## Explanation:

If a card starts in position x , after 1 shuffle, the card will now be in position y , where 2 x ≡ y ( mod 53) . Note that we never obtain the value 0 as a position, as 2 and 53 are relatively prime, so we can say that 1 ≤ y ≤ 52 . Therefore, after n shuffles, the card in position x at the beginning is now in position w , where 2 n x ≡ w ( mod 53) . By the same logic, 1 ≤ w ≤ 52 . Therefore, we need to find the smallest n such that 2 n x ≡ x ( mod 53) .

As 53 is prime, we can invert x on both sides and say that it is the smallest n such that 2 n ≡ 1 ( mod 53) . By Fermat's Little Theorem, we know that 2 52 ≡ 2 ( mod 53) , as 53 is prime. Inverting a 2 on both sides yields that n = 52 works as a solution. One can also verify this is the minimum number of shuffles needed by noting that in the group ( Z /p Z , · ) , where p is a prime, the order of all non-identity elements is p -1 . This is a theorem from Abstract Algebra.

## 367 Water(melon) Weight

Company :

## Prompt:

A 100-pound watermelon is 99% water. After spending some time in the sun, it has only dried down to 98% water. How much does the watermelon weigh now?

## Explanation:

There is 1 pound of non-water in the watermelon. After drying, we know that this pound consists of 2% of the total weight of the watermelon. Hence, the watermelon must weight 50 pounds.

## 368 Dice Order I

Company : None

## Prompt:

You roll two fair dice. What is the probability that the highest value rolled is a four?

## Explanation:

A brute force approach is possible, but a more analytical approach will be provided here. In order for the maximum to be exactly four, the maximum must be less than or equal to four, but not less than or equal to three. In order words: