## 467 Hidden Code

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

A random word generator generates strings of a, b, c, d, e

letters from the set

5

with repetition allowed.

However, you also know that no character is used more than twice and that no two consecutive characters are the same. How many strings are there?

## Explanation:

First, let's find how many strings there are that have no two consecutive characters the same, disregarding the other constraint.

4

options for the first character and then

5

options for each of the other

There are

4

, as the only character disallowed at each step is the one used in the previous spot.

5

Therefore, there are such sequences. We now need to exclude all of sequences that have

4

= 1280

4

that also satisfy the condition that no two consecutive characters are the same.

There are no sequences included in the

1280

above that have always be two of the same that touch. For the case of

form

XYXZX

options for or

of the same character, as there will

4

5

3

of the same character, the sequence would be in the are any of the letters in our set with

Z

X,Y, and

, where and

Z

Y

X

, so there are options for each of

and

4

Therefore, our total number of valid sequences is

## 468 First Pair

Company : Old Mission, SIG

## Prompt:

Find the probability that the top two cards of a well-shuffled standard deck form a pair (two cards of the same rank).

## Explanation:

The first card dealt out will determine the rank of the pair.

number of duplicates of the rank.

remaining of

It can be any card as all cards have the same

Therefore, let the first card be arbitrary.

51

There are cards in the deck, so the probability of a pair is

## 469 Single Double Sum

Company :

3

51

=

1

17

.

3

cards of that rank

1280

-

4

5

2

80 = 1200

.

·

= 80

Z

X

X

Y

There are and

5

.

=

=

sequences that we have to remove.

/negationslash

/negationslash

3

,

4

,

or

5

of a given character

·

{

}