## Explanation:

Let x be the age at which he died. Then 29 x was the year he was born. The year he died then was thus 29 x + x = 30 x . Since the man was alive in the year 1900 , the death must have been after 1900 . Since the year he died must have been divisible by 30 , the next multiple of 30 after 1900 is 1920 . This would imply x = 64 , which is consistent with the information we have. The year he would have been born in was 29 · 64 = 1856 , and he lived 64 years to pass away in 1920 . Therefore, in 1900 , the man turned 44 years old.

## 563 Uniformly Correlated

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that X,Y ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. Define U = 1 -X 2 -Y 2 and V = X 2 + Y 2 . Find Cov ( U, V ) .

## Explanation:

Note that we can write U = 1 -V . This will help us simplify some of the calculations. Thus,

$$C o v ( U , V ) = C o v ( 1 - V , V ) = - \text {Var} ( V ) = - \text {Var} ( X ^ { 2 } + Y ^ { 2 } )$$

We need to calculate this variance, which requires some algebra on the definition of variance. We have that Var ( X 2 + Y 2 ) = E [( X 2 + Y 2 ) 2 ] -( E [ X 2 + Y 2 ]) 2 . We have that E [ X 2 + Y 2 ] = E [ X 2 ] + E [ Y 2 ] . We have that E [ X 2 ] = Var ( X ) +( E [ X ]) 2 = 1 3 from the formulas for the variance and expectation of a Unif (0 , 1) . The same holds for E [ Y 2 ] . The harder term is the first one. We have that

$$\mathbb { E } [ ( X ^ { 2 } + Y ^ { 2 } ) ^ { 2 } ] = \mathbb { E } [ X ^ { 4 } + Y ^ { 4 } + 2 X ^ { 2 } Y ^ { 2 } ] = \mathbb { E } [ X ^ { 4 } ] + \mathbb { E } [ Y ^ { 4 } ] + 2 \mathbb { E } [ X ^ { 2 } ] \mathbb { E } [ Y ^ { 2 } ]$$

A fairly easy to show fact is that for a Unif (0 , 1) , the k th moment is 1 k +1 . You can see this by noting that if R ∼ Unif (0 , 1) , E [ R k ] = ∫ 1 0 r k dr = 1 k +1 by LOTUS. Thus, each of the first two terms in this are 1 5 . Thus, we have that Var ( X 2 + Y 2 ) = ( 1 5 + 1 5 +2 ( 1 3 ) 2 ) -( 1 3 + 1 3 ) 2 = 28 45 -20 45 = 8 45 . Thus, Cov ( U, V ) = -8 45

## 564 Random Bivariate

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that M and S are IID Exp (1) random variables. Given that M = µ and S = σ , ( X,Y ) ∼ BVN ( µ, µ, σ 2 , σ 2 , ρ ) , where | ρ | ≤ 1 is fixed. Compute Var ( Y ) .