## 437 Die Multiple I

Company :

## Prompt:

A fair 6 -sided die is rolled until the sum of all upfaces is even. Find the expected number of rolls performed.

## Explanation:

We condition on the parity of the first roll. Let N be the number of rolls needed for this and E be the event that the first roll is even. Then

$$\mathbb { E } [ N ] = \mathbb { E } [ N \, | \, E ] \mathbb { P } [ E ] + \mathbb { E } [ N \, | \, E ^ { c } ] \mathbb { P } [ E ^ { c } ]$$

As the die is fair, P [ E ] = P [ E c ] = 1 2 . If the first roll is even, we are done in one roll, so E [ N | E ] = 1 . If the first roll is odd, then we just need to roll another odd value to obtain an even sum. There is probability 1 2 per trial of rolling an odd value, so the distribution of the number of rolls needed to see another odd value is Geom (0 . 5) , which has mean 2 . Therefore, E [ N | E c ] = 3 , as we must account for the 1 roll at the beginning. This means our total answer is E [ N ] = 1 + 3 2 = 2 .

## 438 Swift Betting

Company : None

## Prompt:

Juliana is playing "Fifteen" by Taylor Swift. The length of the song is 234 seconds. Juliana offers you the following bet: You may guess a value 0 &lt; x &lt; 1 . Juliana will then stop the song at a uniformly random point along its duration. If the point at which she stops the song is at most 234 x seconds into the song, you must pay Juliana 2 x monetary units. Otherwise, she pays you x monetary units. Find the value of x that maximizes your expected profit.

## Explanation:

We need to calculate our expected profit as a function of x . If we guess x , then the probability Juliana stops before 234 x is x . In this case, we pay Juliana -2 x . Therefore, with probability 1 -x , we are paid x . Therefore, the expected profit when guessing x is x ( -2 x ) + (1 -x ) x = x -3 x 2 . Taking the derivative, we have that the maximizer is when 1 -6 x = 0 , so x = 1 6 .

## 439 Real Roots

Company :