## Prompt:

Three points are randomly selected uniformly at random on the circumference of a circular slab. Then, 3 table legs are attached vertically at those three points. For this table to be "proper", no two legs can be within 90 degrees of one another. What is the probability that this table is "proper"?

## Explanation:

Attach the first leg of the table at an arbitrary position. Since the density is uniform, we do not need to worry about anything. Now, we know that the other legs can't be within 90 degrees of the first leg. Therefore, we can imagine shading out a region spanning 90 degrees in each direction emanating from the first leg location. This shades out half of the table. From this point on, it may be helpful to get a piece of paper and draw all of this out to convince yourself of the arguments below.

Now, we need to ensure that the remaining two legs are not within 90 degrees of one another. However, this probability is dependent upon the location of the second leg. This is because wherever we place the second leg, there is going to be some overlap potentially in the region that is shaded out because of it. How much overlap there is depends on how far away the first leg is from the second. We know that the valid range to put the second leg is 90 to 270 degrees (all orientations are assumed to be CCW) away from the first. By the symmetry of our region and our uniform distribution of the points, as the region that is available to place the third point in is equal in length (and hence probability) if we put the second at 180 + x versus 180 -x , we can just consider the region 90 to 180 degrees away from the first point and double it to get the total probability.

If we place our second leg at 90+ x degrees, 0 &lt; x &lt; 90 , then there are 90 -x degrees remaining at which we can place the third leg. Therefore, by using continuous version of Law of Total Probability the probability we are interested in is ∫ 90 0 2 · 1 360 · 90 -x 360 dx . Recall that the 2 is because we double to account for the other region of 180 to 270 degrees away CCW. Therefore, 2 360 2 ∫ 90 0 90 -xdx = 1 16 , which is our solution.

## 415 Optimal Ball Draw

Company : None

## Prompt:

There are 2 white and 3 black balls in an urn. Rajiv randomly draws balls out of the urn without replacement; he has the option to stop drawing at any time. For every white ball he draws, he earns $1 , but for every black ball he draws, he loses $1 . Suppose Rajiv draws balls following the optimal strategy. What is his expected loss or gain?