## Explanation:

Drawing this out in the plane, the region that is bound by the axes and x + y = 1 is a triangle with side lengths 1 . The region of interest for our event is the region that is below y = x -1 / 2 . Shading in this region, we see that it is also a triangle. The intersection point is (3 / 4 , 1 / 4) , so the length of each side of the triangle of our region of interest is √ 2 4 . Since X and Y are IID Unif (0 , 1) , their conditional joint distribution is uniform over the bigger triangle bound by x + y = 1 and the axes. Thus, we can take ratios of areas, and determine that the area of the big triangle is 1 / 2 , while the area of our smaller region of interest is 1 16 , meaning our probability is 1 8 .

## 399 Six Card Sum

Company :

## Prompt:

Jamie is told there are 3 aces and 3 jacks in a pile. Each turn, a card is drawn without replacement; Jamie earns $1 if he guesses the drawn card correctly. Jamie plays 6 turns under the optimal strategy. How much money should Jamie expect to earn?

## Explanation:

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . , X 6 denote the amount of money won on turn 1 , 2 , . . . , 6 , respectively. By linearity of expectation, the total amount of money won is simply E [ X 1 ] + E [ X 2 ] + . . . + E [ X 6 ] . Clearly, E [ X 1 ] = 1 2 , so let's begin our discussion with the second turn.

After Jamie makes a guess from round 1, regardless of the guess and the true card, Jamie will have information for the correct 3 card-2 card split of the remaining 5 cards. Under the optimal strategy, Jamie should guess the value of the card that appears 3 times in the remaining 5 cards. Hence, E [ X 2 ] = 3 5 .

The expected value of round 3 depends on the previous two guesses; specifically, there is either a 3-1 split or a 2-2 split. Once again, Jamie should know the true split and guess accordingly. It is not difficult to conclude that the probability of a 3-1 split is 2 5 , since there are 20 total orderings of 3 aces and 3 jacks, and 4 1 · 2 of those orderings begin with ace-ace or jack=jack. That means that there is a 3 5 chance that there is a 2-2 split. By the law of total expectation, we have E [ X 3 ] = 3 5 · 1 2 + 2 5 · 3 4 = 3 5 .

The expected value of round 4 can be computed similarly. There is either a 2-1 split or a 3-0 split. The 3-0 split occurs with probability 1 10 , while the 2-1 split occurs with probability 9 10 . By linearity of expectation,