## Explanation:

He is testing the null hypothesis H 0 : µ = 15 against the alternative hypothesis H a : µ &gt; 15 . Because n is sufficiently large, he can utilize the Z statistic. We are given that µ = 15 , ¯ y = 17 , s 2 = 9 , andn = 36 which can be used in the z-score formula:

## 350 2 In A Row

Company :

## Prompt:

You have a coin where you can decide the probability p of obtaining a heads before flipping the coin 4 times. What value of p maximizes the probability that you obtain exactly two consecutive heads in your 4 fl ips? For example, HHHT and HHHH are not allowed, but HHTH is allowed. The answer is in the form a -√ b c for integers a, b, and c with c minimal. Find a + b + c .

## Explanation:

There are three cases to consider: HHT -, THHT , and -THH , where the -can be either H or T . The probability of the first and last occurring are p 2 (1 -p ) each, as we obtain two heads and a tail in those respective orders. The probability of the second case is p 2 (1 -p ) 2 , as you must obtain two heads and two tails in that order. Therefore, if f ( p ) represent our probability of this event as a function of p ,

$$f ( p ) = 2 p ^ { 2 } ( 1 - p ) + p ^ { 2 } ( 1 - p ) ^ { 2 } = p ^ { 4 } - 4 p ^ { 3 } + 3 p ^ { 2 }$$

To maximize f ( p ) , we take the derivative with respect to p and set it equal to 0 . Namely,

$$f ^ { \prime } ( p ) = 4 p ^ { 3 } - 1 2 p ^ { 2 } + 6 p = 2 p ( 2 p ^ { 2 } - 6 p + 3 ) = 0 \iff p = \frac { 6 \pm \sqrt { 1 2 } } { 4 }$$

Since 6 + √ 12 4 &gt; 1 , we take the negative square root on this, and our answer is p ∗ = 3 -√ 3 2 after simplification. Thus, a + b + c = 8 .

## 351 Fishy Bear

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

A bear wants to catch 3 fi sh from a river. When the bear has caught 3 fi sh, it will leave. The bear catches each fish with probability 1 2 . Find the probability the 5 th fish is caught.

$$z = \frac { \bar { y } - \mu } { \frac { s } { \sqrt { n } } } = \frac { 1 7 - 1 5 } { \frac { 3 } { \sqrt { 3 6 } } } = 4$$