## Prompt:

A fair 6 -sided die is rolled. You are paid the face value if the value is odd and twice the face value if it is even. You are allowed to re-roll the die one time if you want and keep the last value rolled. Find the expected payoff of this game under a rational strategy.

## Explanation:

The expected value of a roll of this die is 1 + 4 + 3 + 8 + 5 + 12 6 = 5 . 5 . Therefore, we should re-roll this die if we receive anything below 5 . 5 in value. In other words, we keep only a 4 or 6 appearing. With probability 1 3 , we don't re-roll and our expected value would be 8 + 12 2 = 10 given that we don't re-roll under this strategy. Otherwise, with probability 2 3 we re-roll, in which our expected value is 11 2 . Therefore, the expected payoff of the game is 2 3 · 11 2 + 1 3 · 10 = 7 .

## 941 Unit Distance

Company :

## Prompt:

Let x and y be two unit length orthogonal vectors in R n . Compute || x -y || . This answer is in the form √ a for an integer a . Find a .

## Explanation:

Let u = x -y . Then we know that || u || 2 = u T u . Therefore,

$$| | x - y | | ^ { 2 } = ( x - y ) ^ { T } ( x - y ) = x ^ { T } x - x ^ { T } y - y ^ { T } x + y ^ { T } y$$

As x and y are vectors, x T y and y T x are both just x · y , which is 0 in this case due to the orthogonality of x and y . Therefore, || x -y || 2 = || x || 2 + || y || 2 = 2 , as x and y are both unit length. This means that || x -y || = sqrt 2 , so a = 2 .

## 942 Empty Urn

Company : None

## Prompt:

We flip a fair coin until we obtain our first heads. If the first heads occurs on the k th flip, we are given k balls. We put them into 3 bins labeled 1,2, and 3 at random. Find the probability that none of the three bins are empty.