## Prompt:

Andy claims that 20% of the public loves QuantGuide. Aaron dislikes Andy and wants to prove him wrongâspecifically, he thinks Andy's estimate is too large. He takes a random sample of 100 people to test his claim. It turns out that 15 of the 100 people love QuantGuide, so Aaron argues that 15% of the public loves QuantGuide. Compute, to the nearest thousandth, the value of β for Aaron's alternative hypothesis under a 0 . 05 -level test (note that z 0 . 05 = -1 . 645 ).

## Explanation:

Let p denote the probability that a person loves QuantGuide. We define

$$H _ { 0 } \colon p = 0 . 2$$

$$H _ { a } \colon p = 0 . 1 5$$

$$Z = \frac { \hat { p } - p } { \sqrt { \frac { p ( 1 - p ) } { n } } } = \frac { \hat { p } - 0 . 2 } { 0 . 0 4 } \\ \text {om variable under the null hypot}$$

Our test statistic is

Z should be a standard normal random variable under the null hypothesis. Under the alternative hypothesis,

$$Z _ { a } = \frac { \hat { p } - p } { \sqrt { \frac { p ( 1 - p ) } { n } } } \approx \frac { \hat { p } - 0 . 1 5 } { 0 . 3 5 7 } \\$$

Recall, by definition, that β is the probability that the test statistic, X, is not within the rejection region when H 0 is rejected. So,

$$S o , & & \beta = \mathbb { P } \left ( \frac { 1 0 ( \hat { p } - 1 . 5 ) } { 0 . 3 5 7 } > \frac { 0 . 4 \cdot ( - 1 . 6 4 5 + 5 ) - 1 . 5 } { 0 . 3 5 7 } \right ) \\ & = \mathbb { P } \left ( \frac { 1 0 ( \hat { p } - 1 . 5 ) } { 0 . 3 5 7 } \leq 0 . 0 4 4 2 6 \right ) \approx 0 . 6 7 1$$

## 1103 DeMorgan's Birthday

Company :

## Prompt:

Augustus DeMorgan (yes, from DeMorgan's Laws) died in 1871 . He used to brag that he was x years old in the year x 2 . Assuming a lifespan of no longer than 120 years, what is x ?

## Explanation:

DeMorgan must have been born somewhere between 1751 and 1871 . The only squares in this range are 42 2 = 1764 and 43 2 = 1849 . However, to be 42 in 42 2 = 1764 , DeMorgan would have had to been born in 1722 , which is outside our time range. Therefore, x = 43 .