## Prompt:

There are N people standing in a circle labeled 1 through N , such that the smallest power of two less than or equal to N is X . Starting with the person 1, they take a sword and kill the person to their left. Then, they pass the sword to the living person on their left, and the process continues until one person is left. The survivor's number can be expressed as aN + bX + c . Compute a +2 b +3 c .

## Explanation:

Notice that person 1 will always win if there are a total of 2 k people. This is because powers of 2 can halve without a remainder. If N is not a power of 2, then we simply need to eliminate the first N -X people. The number of the person begins when there are X total people left will win. Starting with player 1, we eliminate N -X people, meaning that we kill every even-numbered player until 2( N -X ) , inclusive. Our survivor is therefore numbered 2( N -X ) + 1 = 2 N -2 X +1 . Hence, a +2 b +3 c = 1 .

## 794 Coloring Components I

Company : Squarepoint Capital, Akuna

## Prompt:

Consider a line of 25 adjacent colorless squares. Color in each individual square black or white with equal probability, independent of all other squares. A connected component is a maximal sequence of adjacent squares all with the same color. For example, BBWBWWWBBW has 6 connected components. Find the expected number of connected components in our line.

## Explanation:

Let C n be the number of connected components when we have n squares in a line. We will derive a recurrence relation for E [ C n ] .

Suppose that we want to find E [ C n ] , the expected number of connected components with n squres in a row. We can find this by conditioning on the n -1 st square. We know that with probability 1 2 each, it matches or differs from the n -1 st square. If it matches, then we have E [ C n -1 ] connected components, as we don't add in any new ones if it matches. If it differs, then we have 1 + E [ C n -1 ] connected components, as the differing color will add in a new component. Therefore, by Law of Total Expectation, E [ C n ] = 1 2 · E [ C n -1 ] + 1 2 · (1+ E [ C n -1 ]) = E [ C n -1 ] + 1 2 . This recurrence along with the initial condition that E [ C 1 ] = 1 (as we have 1 component), yields the solution E [ C n ] = n +1 2 . In particular, n = 25 , so E [ C 25 ] = 13 .