To calculate the implied volatility, we can plug in the values above. T -t = 3 / 12 , S = 12 , and V = 2 . 3 . Solving for σ , we obtain σ = . 961 .

## 541 Bus Wait I

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You are waiting for a bus to get to QuantGuide on time! The bus runs on a fixed schedule of appearing every 10 minutes. If you arrive at a uniformly random time throughout the day, what is the expected time until the next bus appears (in minutes)?

## Explanation:

As you show up at a uniformly random time throughout the day, the time until the next bus is just uniformly distributed between 0 and 10 minutes. Therefore, the answer is just 5 , as that is the mean of this random variable.

## 542 100 Digits

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

Find the smallest positive integer n such that n ! has at least 100 digits.

## Explanation:

Suppose that x has n digits. Then n -1 = log 10 (10 n -1 ) ≤ log 10 ( x ) ≤ log 10 (10 n ) = n Therefore, a viable strategy is to consider log 10 ( n !) . Since n is presumably large, we can note that n ! ≈ √ 2 π n ( n e ) n by Stirling's Approximation. We can substitute this in for n ! and make a function that is slightly easier to deal with. Namely, we want the smallest n such that

$$\log _ { 1 0 } \left ( \sqrt { 2 \pi n } \left ( \frac { n } { e } \right ) ^ { n } \right ) & = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \log _ { 1 0 } ( 2 \pi n ) + n \log _ { 1 0 } \left ( \frac { n } { e } \right ) \geq 1 0 0 \\$$

By using a calculator, we find that n ≥ 70 satisfies this. We also check that 70! ≈ 1 . 19 · 10 100 , which does have 100 digits, so we confirm 70 is correct.

## 543 Missing Product

Company : SIG