## 1024 Weighted Dice

Company : None

## Prompt:

A 6 -sided die is weighted so that the probability of rolling a side with n dots on it (1 ≤ n ≤ 6) is the proportion of the number of dots on that side to the total number dots on the die. Find the probability that if this die is rolled twice, the sum will be a 7.

## Explanation:

The scaling factor in this case is that each dot provides 1 21 probability of that side being rolled. Thus, side i , 1 ≤ i ≤ 6 , has probability i 21 of being rolled. We want the values i and 7 -i to appear in the two rolls, where we sum over i = 1 , . . . , 6 in the end to account for all possible cases. This occurs with probability i (7 -i ) 21 2 for each 1 ≤ i ≤ 6 , as the dice are independent, so the probability of interest is 1 21 2 6 ∑ i =1 7 i -i 2 = 8 63 .

## 1025 The Swarm of Bees

Company :

## Prompt:

The square root of half the number of bees in a swarm has flown out upon a bush; eight-ninths of the whole swarm has remained behind; Then, one female and one male bee exit the bush to be caught by a bird. How many total bees were there at the start?

## Explanation:

Let n be the number of bees. We have that:

$$\sqrt { \frac { n } { 2 } } + \frac { 8 n } { 9 } + 2 = n$$

Solving this, we get n = 72 , 9 / 2 . It is impossible to have a fraction number of bees, so 72 is our answer.

## 1026 Face Value

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Ten cards with values 1 -10 are face down in front of you. You select one card at random and look at it. You can either choose the payout of $3 . 50 or the face value of the card. What is the fair value of this game?