Note that one can see this quickly by noting that n ≤ 3 , as otherwise, it would be less likely to draw two red than two blue. We can rule out n = 0 , as that probability would be 1 . Therefore, that leaves us three cases to check.

## 1065 A Low Median

Company : IMC, SIG

## Prompt:

Suppose we draw 3 numbers from a Unif [0 , 1] distribution independently. We then sort the numbers in ascending order. What is the probability that the median is less than 2 / 3 ?

## Explanation:

If we want the median to be less than 2 3 then it must be that we can have at most one number be larger than 2 3 . Therefore, we have that

$$P [ \text {exactly one number larger} ] = \begin{pmatrix} 3 \\ \frac { 2 } { 3 } \end{pmatrix} ^ { 2 } \left ( \frac { 1 } { 3 } \right ) = \frac { 4 } { 9 }$$

$$P [ \text {exactly zero numbers larger} ] = \left ( \frac { 2 } { 3 } \right ) ^ { 3 } = \frac { 8 } { 2 7 }$$

and we also have

Adding these together, we have that the probability that at most one number is larger than 2 3 is

$$\frac { 4 } { 9 } + \frac { 8 } { 2 7 } = \frac { 2 0 } { 2 7 }$$

## 1066 Corner Meet

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

You have a 5 × 5 checkerboard. You randomly place a checker in the center 3 × 3 grid. The checkers can move in two equally random ways: up to the left, and up to the right. If the checker is on the boundary, then it can only make valid moves. What is the probability that the checker ends up in the top-left or top-right corner?

## Explanation:

Let's look at the probability of reaching a corner from each of the center 3 x 3 grid. We can see that there are 5 squares that have some possibility of reaching the corner. We can use law of total probability. First,