## 1028 Mississippi

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

How many permutations of the word MISSISSIPPI are palindromes? A palindrome means that the string creates reads the same both forwards and backwards.

## Explanation:

For the word to read the same both forwards and backwards, as Mississippi is 11 letters, the M must be in the middle. Therefore, we have something in the form - - - - -M - - - --, where each -is filled with an S, I, or P . Note that there are 4 S s and I s, while there are only 2 P s. Therefore, for the word to read the same both forwards and backwards, we must have 2 S s and I s on each side and 1 P on each side. Once we distribute the letters to one side, the other side is also fixed, so the number of ways to do this is 5! 2! · 2! · 1! = 30 , as we must account for the overcounting induced by exchanging the duplicate S and I around.

## 1029 Poker Hands II

Company : None

## Prompt:

A poker hand consists of five cards from a fair deck of 52 cards. What is the probability that you have a full house (three cards of the same value and another two cards of the same value)?

## Explanation:

There are a total of ( 52 5 ) total hand combinations. To count the number of hands that contain a full house, we can look at the triplet and pair separately. The triplet has 13 possible face values and ( 4 3 ) possible suit values. The pair has 12 possible face values and ( 4 2 ) possible suit values. Thus, the probability that you have a full house is:

$$\frac { 1 3 \times \left ( \begin{matrix} 4 \\ 3 \end{matrix} \right ) \times 1 2 \times \left ( \begin{matrix} 4 \\ 2 \end{matrix} \right ) } { \left ( \begin{matrix} 5 ^ { 2 } \\ 5 \end{matrix} \right ) } = \frac { 6 } { 4 1 6 5 } \\$$

## 1030 Doubly Stochastic

Company :