## Prompt:

Russian Dolls are dolls of decreasing size that can be opened up to have smaller dolls placed inside. Kaushik has 7 nesting dolls of distinct sizes. A valid nesting of the dolls requires that at least 2 of the 7 dolls are used and that each of the dolls are placed inside one another with decreasing size as you move from the outer doll to the inner doll. How many valid nestings can Kaushik create?

## Explanation:

If we label the dolls 1 -7 , with 7 being the largest and 1 being smallest, note that every subset of { 1 , 2 , . . . , 7 } of size at least 2 creates a valid nesting by arranging them with the largest element of the set on the outside, second largest element inside the first largest, etc. There is 1 subset of { 1 , 2 , . . . , 7 } of size 0 and ${7 \choose 1} = 7$ subsets of size 1 . There are $2^7 = 128$ total subsets, so there are $128 - 8 = 120$ orderings.

## 412 Option Arbitrage

Company : TransMarket Group

## Prompt:

You have 3 calls at the following strikes and prices:

1000 @ 4

1010 @ 3.5

1020 @ 2.75

There is an arbitrage. What amount of money are you guaranteed to make (in dollars)?

## Explanation:

For this to be an arbitrage, there must be a 0 probability that we lose money. In other words, our constructed portfolio must have a non-negative payoff everywhere and we must pay at most 0 to enter the position.

For this to occur, we see that we must construct a butterfly spread. To do this, we buy 1 unit of the 1000 -strike call, short 2 units of the 1010 -strike call, and buy 1 unit of the 1020 -strike call. The cost to enter this spread is -0 . 25 . In other words, we are paid 25 cents to enter a spread, in which there is a non-negative payoff everywhere. We are guaranteed to at least collect the 25 cents.

## 413 The Picking Hat

Company : Jane Street