## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , · · · ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. Let N be the first index n where X n = max { X 1 , . . . , X n } . Find E [ N ] . The answer will be in the form a + be for integers a and b . Note here that e is Euler's constant. Find a + b .

## Explanation:

We can use the tail-sum formula for non-negative integer-valued random variables E [ N ] = ∞ ∑ n =0 P [ N &gt; n ] . Clearly P [ N &gt; 0] = P [ N &gt; 1] = 1 , as we need at least 2 random variables to compare to get one that is not the max. Suppose that n ≥ 2 . Then the event { N &gt; n } means that X 1 &lt; X 2 &lt; · · · &lt; X n , which occurs with probability 1 n ! , as this is one specific ordering of the indices among n ! possible orderings. Therefore, P [ N &gt; n ] = 1 n ! . In particular, this holds for n = 0 , 1 as well, which is ideal. Summing up,

$$\mathbb { E } [ N ] = \sum _ { n = 0 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { n ! } = e$$

The answer is therefore 0 + 1 = 1 .

## 13 Candleburn

Company : TransMarket Group

## Prompt:

We have two candles of the same size and uniform density. One burns in 2 hours, while the other burns in 1 hour. At what time should we simultaneously light these candles in order to have one candle be double the length of the other at 4 PM? Answer in military time. For example if the answer is 8 : 20 PM, answer 2020 .

## Explanation:

After x hours, a proportion of 1 -x 2 would be remaining from the 2 hour candle, while 1 -x would be remaining from the 1 hour candle. We want to find x such that 1 -x 2 = 2(1 -x ) . This is because the 1 hour candle burns faster. Therefore, solving this, we see that x = 2 3 . This means we should light both candles 40 minutes before 4 : 00 PM, which is 3 : 20 PM. Thus, our answer is 1520 in military time.

## 14 Ten Consecutive Heads

Company : Jane Street, WorldQuant, Two Sigma, Citadel, SIG, Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

On average, how many times must a fair coin be flipped to obtain 10 consecutive heads?

/negationslash