## Prompt:

You have two assets. We will call them asset 1 and asset 2 . Asset 1 has an expected return of 4% and a variance of 15% . Asset 2 has an expected return of 2% and a variance of 4% . They have a correlation ρ = -1 .

We want to create a risk-free portfolio using assets 1 and 2 . We will denote w 1 and w 2 as the weights of asset 1 and 2 in the portfolio respectively. Assume that w 1 + w 2 = 1 . What is w 1 ? Give the answer to 2 decimal points.

## Explanation:

Let's denote w 1 = w and w 2 = 1 -w . In a 2 asset world, we can write the variance of a portfolio as: σ 2 = w 2 σ 2 1 +2 w (1 -w ) ρσ 1 σ 2 +(1 -w ) 2 σ 2 2 . For a risk-less portfolio, we require σ = 0 . Plugging in ρ = -1 and solving for w 1 = w . We obtain:

$$w = \frac { \sigma _ { 2 } } { \sigma _ { 1 } + \sigma _ { 2 } }$$

We see that the expected returns do not matter. We can obtain a riskless portfolio from two assets if they have a correlation of -1 and weight them using the above manner. This rarely happens in real life.

This gives us w = √ . 04 √ . 15+ √ . 04 ≈ 0 . 34 .

## 44 First Ace

Company : Jane Street, Citadel, Akuna, IMC, Optiver, Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

On average, how many cards in a normal deck of 52 playing cards do you need to flip over to observe your first ace?

## Explanation:

The four aces are dispersed throughout the deck and cut the 48 remaining cards into 5 distinct sections, each of some random length X i ∈ [0 , 48] where 1 ≤ i ≤ 5 ; that is, 5 ∑ i =1 X i = 48 . Furthermore, by symmetry, E [ X 1 ] = E [ X 2 ] = · · · = E [ X 5 ] , as in the absence of any additional information, none of the sections is expected to be any larger or smaller than any other. Thus, by linearity of expectation:

$$E \left [ \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 5 } X _ { i } \right ] & = 5 \times E [ X _ { 1 } ] = 4 8 \Rightarrow E [ X _ { 1 } ] = \frac { 4 8 } { 5 } \\$$

We have found that the expected number of cards in the first section is 48 5 , so we will observe the first ace on the next card. Hence, we expect to flip 48 5 +1 = 10 . 6 cards to observe the first ace.