on. However, 1 , 3 , 7 , and 9 are free to be on or off. Therefore, there are 2 4 = 16 outcomes in this case. The other case is more complicated.

Suppose that light bulb 5 is off now. We now have 4 sub-cases to consider corresponding to the different combinations of when light bulbs 4 and 6 are powered or not.

Case 1 - Both On: In this case, 1 , 3 , 7 , and 9 all must be off. However, 2 and 8 are free to be on or off, so there are 2 2 = 4 outcomes in this case.

Case 2 - One On: To simplify, we will consider when 4 is on and 6 is off. Then, we can just multiply by 2 to account for the other case. Since 4 is on, 1 and 7 must be off. For 2 and 3 , either exactly one is on or neither is on. This accounts for 3 cases. This holds similarly for light bulbs 8 and 9 , so there are 2 · 3 · 3 = 18 combinations in this case.

Case 3 - Both Off: If both 4 and 6 are off, then light bulbs 1 -3 can either be all off ( 1 case), have exactly one on ( 3 cases), or have 1 and 3 on with 2 off ( 1 case). This yields 5 total cases. This similarly holds for lightbulbs 7 -9 , so there are 5 2 = 25 combinations for this case.

Adding all of these up, we get that there are 16 + 4 + 18 + 25 = 63 total combinations that are favorable, so our answer is 63 512 .

## 298 Standing Table

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

We make a table from a circular disk and three legs. We attach the three legs to the circumference of the circular disk. What is the probability that the table stands up?

## Explanation:

Lets fix the first leg at a random spot on the circumference. The second leg is expected to be 1 4 th of the circumference away from the initial leg (draw out the circle, you will see that the average spot for the second leg is half way between where the first leg is and the opposite point of the first leg). Finally, for the table to