## Explanation:

We know that our point is uniformly at random selected from this sphere. Let R be the random radius (distance from the origin) of this point. We know that R 2 = X 2 1 + · · · + X 2 10 . Since this sphere is clearly symmetric about the origin and all of the coordinates share the same marginal distributions, they are exchangeable and hence has the same expectation. Therefore, E [ R 2 ] = 10 E [ X 2 1 ] .

We know that Var ( X 1 ) = E [ X 2 1 ] -( E [ X 1 ]) 2 . However, as our sphere is again symmetric about the origin, the mean of X 1 is 0 , so we just need to find the second moment of X 1 and we are done. This boils down to, by the above, finding the expected squared distance from the center.

Let's compute P [ R ≤ r ] . The volume of a n -dimensional sphere of radius r is a constant C n · r n . Therefore, as we select uniformly at random from this sphere, the probability of the event { R ≤ r } just means that our point belongs to the sub-sphere of radius r from the big sphere of radius 12 . The probability of this is C 10 r 10 C 10 · 12 10 = r 10 12 10 . Therefore, the probability density of R (found by taking the derivative with respect to r of the CDF) is f R ( r ) = 10 r 9 12 10 I (0 , 12) ( r ) . The indicator comes from the fact that the radius must be somewhere between 0 and 12 . Obtaining E [ R 2 ] is now straightforward using LOTUS. We have that E [ R 2 ] = 1 12 10 ∫ 12 0 10 r 11 dr = 10 12 11 12 12 = 120 .

Plugging this back into our original equation, we have that 120 = 10 E [ X 2 1 ] , meaning Var ( X 1 ) = E [ X 2 1 ] = 12 .

## 499 English and History Majors

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

At a local university, 30% of students major in English, 45% major in History, and 15% double major in both. What proportion of students major in neither English nor History?

## Explanation:

We are able to obtain the proportion of students majoring in just English by subtracting out the intersection proportion from the English proportion. This means 15% of students major in only English. Similarly, 30% of students major in just History. Adding all the single major students and the double major students, we get 60% of students major in either English or History. Therefore, 40% do not major in either of the subjects.