## Prompt:

There are 3 shiny and 4 dull pennies in a box. Pennies are drawn from the box without replacement. Compute the probability that it takes more than 4 draws for the third shiny penny to appear.

## Explanation:

We can use complimentary probability; we'll begin by compute the probability that the third shiny penny appears within the first 4 draws. There are two cases: (1) the third shiny penny appears on the third draw, and (2) the third shiny penny appears on the fourth draw. This is now a very simple ordering problem. There are ( 7 3 ) = 35 total orderings. There is 1 ordering that satisfies case 1, and 3 orderings that satisfy case 2 (there is exactly 1 dull penny that appears in the first 4 draws, and the last of the first 4 draws must be a shiny penny). Our answer is 31 35 .

## 521 Three Riflemen

Company : WorldQuant

## Prompt:

Three riflemen A,B, and C take turns shooting at a target. A shoots first, B second, and C third, after which the cycle repeats again with A , until one of the riflemen hits the target. Each shot hits the target with probability 1 / 2 , independent of other shots. Find the probability A wins.

## Explanation:

We are looking for the distribution of the first success of a process with probability 1 / 2 of success per trial. The distribution of the number of trials needed is N ∼ Geom (1 / 2) . Therefore, P [ N = k ] = 1 2 k for k ≥ 1 . If A wins, then the shot is on one of trials 1 , 4 , 7 , . . . , as it must cycle back to them. Therefore, the probability of interest is

$$\sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { \infty } \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { 3 k + 1 } & = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { 8 ^ { k } } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 8 } } = \frac { 4 } { 7 } \\$$

Another way to quickly see this is that we could call the probability of person A winning p . Every outcome where person B has the opportunity to win is the same as person A except scaled by a factor of half since person B must ensure person A misses right before them, so the probability for person B is 1 2 p . By the same logic, the probability person C wins is 1 4 p . Adding all of these up yields

$$p \left ( 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \right ) = 1 \iff p = \frac { 4 } { 7 }$$

## 522 Call Option Change

Company :