## 766 Fixed Point Limit II

Company : Citadel, WorldQuant

## Prompt:

Let F n be the number of fixed points of a random permutation f : S n → S n , where S n = { 1 , 2 , . . . , n } . Find lim n →∞ P [ F n = 5] . The answer is in the form c e , where e is Euler's constant and c is a constant. Find c .

## Explanation:

For large n , the distribution of F n ≈ Binom ( n, 1 /n ) because each of the n values has probability 1 /n of being mapped to itself. However, each value being a fixed point are not independent events, as knowledge of one being fixed increases the probability of another being fixed. However, for large n , the change is so small that it is nearly independent. One can make this argument rigorous to show that the (formal) conditions of the Poisson Limit Theorem apply. Since Poisson Limit Theorem applies, we can conclude that as n → ∞ , F n = ⇒ Poisson (1) (this means convergence in distribution). Therefore, P [ F n = 5] will converge to 1 5! e -5 , so our answer is 1 120 .

## 767 Fair Bounty I

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

You're on a game show! The host tells you that $200 is located behind one of 7 doors. The other 6 doors have nothing behind them. You have no idea which door the money is behind. You keep selecting randomly until you find the money. You do not select any doors that you have selected prior. If each door opening costs $ x and the game is fair, what is x ?

## Explanation:

As the money is behind a random door, the number of selections needed to find the money is discrete uniform on { 1 , 2 , . . . , 7 } . Note that it is not geometric since the success probability changes each time. The expected number of selections needed to find the money is therefore 4 . For the game to be fair, this means each draw must cost x = 200 4 = 50 .

## 768 OLS Review II

Company : Squarepoint Capital