sequence for the first n -2 fl ips. Therefore, there are t n -2 such sequences of flips satisfying this case. Therefore, we obtain the recurrence t n = t n -1 + t n -2 .

We now need some initial conditions. For n = 1 , there is 1 sequence satisfying this: H . For n = 2 , there are 2 sequences satisfying this: HH and TT . Therefore, we can fully recognize this as t n = F n +1 , where F n is the n th Fibonacci number. Thus, our probability is F n +1 2 n . For n = 10 , we get that our answer is 89 1024 .

## 16 Bowl of Cherries II

Company : None

## Prompt:

Amy has a bowl of 5 red cherries and 8 purple cherries. She takes out cherries one at a time until there are no cherries left. What is the probability that when the last red cherry is drawn, there are exactly 2 purple cherries left?

## Explanation:

The only way for a bowl to have k cherries left is if the remaining k cherries are all purple and the k +1 -th cherryâcounting backwardsâis red. We now have a simple ordering problem: how many ways can m red cherries and n purple cherries be ordered such that the last k cherries are purple and the k + 1 -th cherry from the end is red?

We begin by assigning the last k cherries as purple and the k +1 -th cherry from the end as red. We are left with m -1 red cherries and n -k purple cherries to order however we'd like. Correcting for overcounting (since red cherries are indistinguishable from each other and purple cherries are indistinguishable from each other), we find that there are

$$\frac { ( m + n - k - 1 ) ! } { ( m - 1 ) ! \, ( n - k ) ! }$$

$$\frac { ( m + n ) ! } { m ! \, n ! }$$

possible orderings of the m red and n purple cherries without the restriction.

Thus, the probability is possible orderings.

There are a total of