## Explanation:

This is a Markov Chain question and you can tell by the existence of states in this question (state of given $0 , $100 , $200 , $300 , $400 , and $500 ). Let E 0 be the number of bills you have to give on average given the state of having given the jailor $0 or starting over after giving a fake bill. Then E i for i in { 100 , 200 , 300 , 400 , 500 } be the states of having given the jailor $ i (all real) in a row (again, the average number of bills needed to be given). The equations become:

$$E _ { 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 0 } + 1$$

$$E _ { 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 0 } + 1$$

$$E _ { 2 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 3 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 0 } + 1$$

$$E _ { 3 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 4 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 0 } + 1$$

$$E _ { 4 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 5 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } E _ { 0 } + 1$$

$$E _ { 5 } = 0$$

When you solve for E 0 (the state of expectation we are trying to find), you get 62 bills needing to be pulled out on average.

## 780 Dual Die View

Company :

## Prompt:

You have two fair 6 -sided dice. At each round, you roll both dice and record the upfaces. Find the expected number of rounds you need to perform to observe all 6 faces of the dice.

## Explanation:

The key here is to set up a Markov chain. Let e i be the expected number of rounds it takes given you already have i distinct faces. We want e 0 . The boundary condition is that e 6 = 0 , as we would already be done at that point. We can work backwards on this.

We would have that e 5 = 1 + 25 36 e 5 + 11 36 e 6 . This is because if we already have 5 values, then with probability 5 6 per die we roll a value that has already been rolled. This doesn't contribute to anything further, so e 5 = 36 11 after rearranging.