There are A ( n -1) sequences starting with T that satisfy this condition, as the first flip is T and the other n -1 spots must not contain any consecutive heads. There are A ( n -2) sequences starting with HT by the same logic with with n -2 remaining spots. Thus, A ( n ) = A ( n -1) + A ( n -2) with A (1) = 2 and A (2) = 3 . This is just the Fibonacci sequence shifted. In particularly, A ( n ) = F n +2 , where F k is the k th Fibonacci number.

Given this information, all sequences that satisfy the condition are equally likely. We know that there are A ( n -2) sequence starting with HT (and hence H ) out of the A ( n ) total. Therefore, we get that

$$p ( n ) = \frac { A ( n - 2 ) } { A ( n ) } = \frac { F _ { n } } { F _ { n + 2 } }$$

In particular, p (10) = F 10 F 12 = 55 144

## 73 Car Bidding II

Company : None

## Prompt:

Fred is selling his old car. He will sell it to the first bidder that places a bid of at least $9000 . He receives bids for the car that are all independent and identically distributed exponential random variables with mean $5000 . Given that Fred sells his car, what is the probability that he sells the car for at least $15000 ? The answer is in the form e a for a rational number a . Find a .

## Explanation:

Let B be the bid price. For the bid to be accepted, we know that B &gt; 9000 . We want to find the probability B &gt; 15000 , but we have this information from above, so we really want P [ B &gt; 15000 | B &gt; 9000] . By the memorylessness property, this is equivalent to asking P [ B &gt; 6000] . Using the CDF of the exponential distribution,

$$T h e r e f o r e , a = - \frac { 6 } { 5 } .$$

## 74 1 or Bust

Company :

$$\mathbb { P } [ B > 6 0 0 0 ] = 1 - \mathbb { P } [ B \leq 6 0 0 0 ] = 1 - \left ( 1 - e ^ { - \S } \right ) = e ^ { - \S }$$