$$\frac { ( m + n - k - 1 ) ! } { ( m - 1 ) ! \, ( n - k ) ! } \cdot \frac { m ! \, n ! } { ( m + n ) ! } = \frac { 7 0 } { 4 2 9 } \\$$

Alternatively, we know that the last three spots must be RPP , so the probability of this sequence is 5 13 · 8 12 · 7 11 = 70 429

## 17 Straddle Delta

Company :

## Prompt:

Let's consider a straddle on underlying S with strike K and expiry T . You have a put option on S , also with strike K and expiry T . This put option has ∆ = -0 . 31 . What is the ∆ of the straddle? Assume Black-Scholes dynamics.

## Explanation:

We can replicate a straddle by going long 1 unit of a call option and long 1 unit of a put option at the same strike K . By replication, the ∆ of a portfolio will be equal to the ∆ of the components. We know that ∆ C = 1 + ∆ P = 1 -0 . 31 = 0 . 69 . So, we have total portfolio ∆ = 0 . 69 -0 . 31 = 0 . 38 .

This is an interesting result: this straddle has positive delta, not 0 delta as someone may naively think.

## 18 Mixing Glasses

Company : None

## Prompt:

You have a glass of orange juice and a glass of water with equal volumes. You pour some water into the orange juice glass and then pour some of the mixed fluids back into the water glass such that their volumes are again equal. Let x be the percent concentration of water in the glass of diluted water, and y be the percent concentration of orange juice in the glass of diluted orange juice. What is x -y ?

## Explanation:

Let V be the initial and final volumes (in mL) of the two glasses and w be the volume of water (in mL) that is ultimately in the orange juice glass after all transferring/mixing. Thus, there are V -w mL of water in the water glass, and since we know the final volume is V , the remaining w mL of volume must be taken up by orange juice. Similarly, since there are w mL of water in the orange juice glass and the final volume is V ,