## 904 Rabbit Hop I

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

A rabbit starts at the floor in front of a staircase of 10 stairs. The rabbit can hop up any amount of stairs at each move. How many distinct paths are there from the floor to the top of the staircase (i.e. to the top of the 10 th stair)?

## Explanation:

Each path can be described as selecting a subset of { 1 , 2 , . . . , 9 } for the rabbit to land on. This is because we can identify any path uniquely by which stairs the rabbit lands on. Thus, there are 2 9 = 512 subsets of { 1 , 2 , . . . , 9 } , so 512 is our answer.

## 905 Shifty Cylinder

Company :

## Prompt:

The radius of a cylinder is growing at a rate of 2 meter per hour, and the height of the cylinder is decreasing at a rate of 5 meters per hour. At what rate is the volume of the cylinder changing (in cubic meters per hour) at the instant where the base radius is 3 meters and the height is 6 meters? The answer is in the form k π for a constant k . Find k .

## Explanation:

## 906 Salah Goal

Company :

## Prompt:

Mo Salah is lining up to take a penalty kick. He decides to perform 3 n motions. Each motion is either 2 steps forward or 1 step backwards. Find the probability that after 9 motions, Salah is exactly where he started.

$$V ( r , h ) = \pi r ^ { 2 } h$$

is the volume of a cylinder as a function of r and h . Furthermore, we are given that r ′ = 2 and h ′ = -5 from the question. Therefore, we have that V ′ = 2 π rhr ′ + π r 2 h ′ by applying the product rule to the above. Plugging in all of our values, we get that the volume changes at a rate of

$$2 \pi ( 3 ) ( 6 ) ( 2 ) + \pi ( 3 ) ^ { 2 } ( - 5 ) = 2 7 \pi$$