( p = 1 if she should go first, p = 2 if she should go second). Let b be the maximum number of balls Alice should select on her first turn if Bob chooses 32 balls on his first turn. Find 100 p + b .

## Explanation:

If Alice can leave 3 m +1 balls in the urn for an integer m for Bob to select from, she will have a winning strategy. As 100 = 3(33) + 1 , she should let Bob go first. This means p = 2 . Once Bob selects, Alice can always leave 3 x + 1 balls for some integer x for Bob to select from. This is because if Bob selects 2 k = (3 -1) k = 3 n +( -1) k balls for an integer n , given that there are already 3 m +1 balls in the urn for Bob to select from, then there would now be

$$3 ( m - n ) + 1 - ( - 1 ) ^ { k } = 3 m ^ { \prime } + 1 + ( - 1 ) ^ { k + 1 }$$

remaining balls for an integer m ′ . Thus, you should pick 2 y balls, where y ≡ k +1 mod 2 This would cancel out the ( -1) k +1 term at back.

All of the above implies that the strategy for Alice is to let Bob go first. If Bob selects 2 k , then Alice should select 2 k +1 , if possible. If that isn't possible based on how many balls remain, Alice should select a smaller exponent equal in parity to 2 k +1 i.e. 2 k -1 , 2 k -3 , . . . that is possible to select. In our scenario here, since Bob selects 32 on his first turn, there are 68 left, so Alice should select 64 balls, as that is still possible. This means b = 64 , so our answer is 100 · 2 + 64 = 264 .

## 852 Hide and Seek

Company : None

## Prompt:

You are playing a game of hide-and-seek with two friends. While one of your friends counts, you and your other friend are given a chance to hide in one of five possible hiding spots. You are each allowed to pick a hiding spot, and are permitted to share a hiding spot. Your friend finishes counting and checks one of the five hiding spots. Assuming that everyone's decisions are made uniformly at random, what are the chances that your friend does not find anyone in the first spot that they check?

## Explanation:

In order for the seeker to not find anyone in the first spot, you and your friend must be in one of the four other spots. Thus, the probability that you and your friend are not caught in the first spot is:

$$\frac { 4 } { 5 } \times \frac { 4 } { 5 } = \frac { 1 6 } { 2 5 }$$