E [ I 1 ] is just the probability of the event that I 1 indicates. Namely, this is the probability that pair 1 is still in the drawer after drawing out the socks. To not pick any of pair 1 socks, we must pick 8 socks from the other 10 , so there are ( 10 8 ) ways to do this. There are ( 12 8 ) ways to pick 8 socks in general, so the probability (and hence E [ I 1 ]) is ( 10 8 ) ( 12 8 ) = 1 11 . Therefore, E [ T ] = 6 11 .

## 838 Game Show II

Company : Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

You're on a game show and are given the choice of three doors to choose from. Behind one door is a car and behind the other two are goats. You pick one of the doors at random and announce your choice to the game show host. The game show host then chooses an audience member at random, who is unaware of the prizes behind the doors, to open one of the two doors you did not choose at random. The audience member opens a door that you did not choose and happens to reveal a goat. The game show host offers you the opportunity to either keep your original door or switch to the other closed door. What is the probability that you win the car if you switch?

## Explanation:

Note that we cannot use a frequentist approach to solve this problem, as the audience member would reveal the car 1 3 of the time in repeated play, which is not the case in this instance. Instead, the audience member has just happened to open a door and revealed a goat. That is, the audience member removed one door from the sample space. The probability that you win the car if you switch is 1 2 .

## 839 Colorful Cube

Company : None

## Prompt:

Consider coloring the 6 sides of a cube each a distinct color among red, blue, green, yellow, purple, and pink. Find the probability that the sides that are colored red, green, and blue all share a vertex of the cube (i.e. corner) in common.

## Explanation:

There are 6! colorings of the sides total. There are 8 ways to pick the corner of intersection. Then, there are 3! = 6 ways to arrange the 3 colors among the sides that intersect at that corner. Then, there are 3! = 6 ways to arrange the other 3 colors among the other 3 sides. Thus, our probability is 8 · 6 2 6! = 2 5 .