tedious integral by utilizing what we know about the variance.

$$V a r ( Z ) = 1 \\ \mathbb { E } [ Z ^ { 2 } ] - ( \mathbb { E } [ Z ] ) ^ { 2 } = 1 \\ \mathbb { E } [ Z ^ { 2 } ] - 0 = 1 \\ \mathbb { E } [ Z ^ { 2 } ] = 1 .$$

Our final step is to plug everything into our covariance expression.

$$C o v ( X , Y ) & = \mathbb { E } [ X Y ] - \mathbb { E } [ X ] \mathbb { E } [ Y ] \\ & = 0 - ( - 1 ) \cdot 0 \\ & = 0$$

It is important to note that if Cov ( X,Y ) = 0 , then it is not necessarily the case that X and Y are independent. Recall that the rule 'If X and Y are independent, then Cov ( X,Y ) = 0 ' is not an if-and-only-if statement.

## 1132 1 Glove Off

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

You have 5 pairs of gloves that each have a distinct number 1 -5 . The 10 gloves are randomly paired up. Find the probability that the gloves are paired up such that the values of any pair differ by at most 1 .

## Explanation:

We are going to solve the more general case with n pairs of gloves labelled 1 -n . Note that there are (2 n )! 2 n · n ! ways to pair up the 2 n gloves, as there are (2 n )! total arrangements, n ! ways to re-label the pairs, and then 2 ways to switch around the order in each pair. Let g n be the number of arrangements that satisfy our condition. Consider the two gloves labelled n , say n 1 and n 2 . Decide the partner for n 1 first. We either have that n 2 is paired with n 1 , in which case, we go back to the same problem but with n -1 pairs of gloves instead of n . Otherwise, n 1 is paired with one of the gloves labelled n -1 , of which there are 2 ways to pick that glove. Afterwards, we know that n 2 is paired with the other glove labelled n -1 , and that becomes fixed. Then, this goes back to the same problem but with n -2 pairs of gloves instead. Therefore, we get the recurrence relation

$$g _ { n } = g _ { n - 1 } + 2 g _ { n - 2 }$$

Remember that the 2 in front of g n -2 represents the fact that we have 2 options of the glove labelled n -1 to match with n 1 in that sub-case. We now need some initial conditions. Note that g 1 = 1 , as there is clearly only one pair. Furthermore, we have g 2 = 3 , as we can pick the partner for any one of the gloves in 3 ways, and that fixes the other pair immediately. The characteristic equation of this recurrence relation is r 2 -r -2 = 0 , of which the solutions are r = 2 , -1 . Therefore, g n = c 0 · 2 n + c 1 · ( -1) n . Plugging in the