$$\text {There, using the formula Var(X) = \mathbb { E } [ X ^ { 2 } ] - ( \mathbb { E } [ X ] ) ^ { 2 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } - \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { 2 } = \frac { 1 } { 1 2 }$$

## 577 Colorful Socks II

Company : None

## Prompt:

10

pairs of socks, each with a distinct color, are in a drawer. You draw out 3 socks at random. Find the probability that you obtain a matching pair.

## Explanation:

Let the first sock be arbitrarily drawn. We can do this since there are the same amount of socks of each color in the drawer. To obtain 2 socks of matching color, we either need the first and second socks to match or we need the third sock to match one of the first two differing color socks.

For the first case, the probability that we obtain a matching color sock on the second draw is 1 19 , as we drew out 1 sock and only 1 of the remaining 19 is of that same color. After that, we are out of socks of that color, so it is irrelevant what we pick next. Alternatively, suppose the first and second socks differ in color. This occurs with probability 18 19 by complementation. To get a pair, the third sock must match one of the first 2 colors of socks drawn. This occurs with probability 2 18 , as there are 2 socks of the same color as the first two pairs drawn out of 18 total. Therefore, the probability of this case is 2 19 . Adding the two cases together, our probability is 3 19 .

## 578 Sticky Delta

Company :

## Prompt:

We have a call option on the underlying S with initial price S 0 = 4 and strike K = 4 . The Γ of the underlying is 0 . 03 . The implied volatility follows a sticky-delta model. Let σ ( x ) = ( x -0 . 5) 2 + . 3 , where x represents the ∆ of the option and σ the implied volatility.

Give an approximation for the implied volatility of the K = 6 call option. Round to 2 decimal points.