following:

When n = 1 , 100 ( 1 10 ) n + n = 11 . When n = 2 , 100 ( 1 10 ) n + n = 3 . When n ≥ 3 , the n term alone will be greater than the value of 100 ( 1 10 ) n for n = 2 , so 2 is our final answer.

$$n _ { \text {optimal} } & = \arg \max _ { n \in N } \left \{ \left ( 1 - \left ( \frac { 1 } { 1 0 } \right ) ^ { n } \right ) 1 0 0 - n \right \} \\ & = \arg \min _ { n \in N } \left \{ 1 0 0 \left ( \frac { 1 } { 1 0 } \right ) ^ { n } + n \right \} \\ + n - 1 1 & = 1 1 \text { when } n - 2 \ 1 0 0 \left ( \frac { 1 } { 1 } \right ) ^ { n } + n - 3 \text { when } n > 3 \text { then } n \geqslant 3 \ t h s c r { D }$$

## 335 Central Containment

Company : Jane Street, Akuna, Goldman Sachs

## Prompt:

What is the probability that three random points on a unit circle would form a triangle that includes the center of the unit circle?

## Explanation:

Fix the first point arbitrarily. The second point can also lie anywhere, but notice that to form a triangle which contains the center, the third point must lie on the portion which has equivalent size as the length of the arc between the first two points, reflected over the center. Thus, think about the position of the second point. The size of that portion could be anywhere between 0 and π . On average, it is π 2 , and hence the answer is

## 336 Ascending Stairs

Company : None

## Prompt:

You are at the bottom of a staircase with 5 steps. You can either take one or two steps at a time. How many different ways are there for you to ascend the staircase?

## Explanation:

Let f ( x ) be the number of ways to ascend to step x . You can only step to x from either step x -1 or x -2 . In other words, f ( x ) = f ( x -1)+ f ( x -2) . We know that f (1) = 1 and f (2) = 2 , so we can solve for f (5) = 8 recursively.

$$\frac { \frac { \pi } { 2 } } { 2 \pi } = \frac { 1 } { 4 }$$