## Prompt:

Fred is selling his old car. He will sell it to the first bidder that places a bid of at least $9000 . He receives bids for the car that are all independent and identically distributed exponential random variables with mean $5000 . Find the expected number of bids that Fred receives before selling his car. This is inclusive of the bid that he receives that makes him sell the car. The answer is in the form e a for a rational number a . Find a .

## Explanation:

Let B be the distribution of the bid prices. We first want to obtain P [ B &gt; 9000] , as this will give us the success probability for the event we want to observe for the first time. We have that B ∼ Exp ( 1 5000 ) , as B has mean 5000 . Therefore, using the CDF of B ,

$$\mathbb { P } [ B > 9 0 0 0 ] = 1 - \mathbb { P } [ B \leq 9 0 0 0 ] = 1 - \left ( 1 - e ^ { - \frac { \theta } { 3 } } \right ) = e ^ { - \frac { \theta } { 3 } }$$

Therefore, if N gives the number bids needed to have the first bid accepted, N ∼ Geom ( e -9 5 ) . By properties of geometric distributions, E [ N ] = e 9 5 .

## 1006 Python or R

Company : None

## Prompt:

Two sets of developers learn to code in Python or R, 50 to each language. At the end of the instructional period, a coding performance test yielded the results ¯ x 1 = 74 , ¯ x 2 = 71 , s 1 = 9 , s 2 = 10 . What is the attained significance level (to 4 significant figures) of a test to conclude whether or not there is a difference in performance between the developers using the two languages? Assume simple random sampling, variance homogeneity, and that performance is approximately normally distributed.

## Explanation:

We are running a statistical test with the null hypothesis H 0 : µ 1 = µ 2 against the alternative hypothesis H a : µ 1 = µ 2 . The z statistic is:

$$z = \frac { \bar { x } _ { 1 } - \bar { x } _ { 2 } } { \sqrt { \frac { s _ { 1 } ^ { 2 } } { n _ { 1 } } + \frac { s _ { 2 } ^ { 2 } } { n _ { 2 } } } } = \frac { 7 4 - 7 1 } { \sqrt { \frac { 9 ^ { 2 } } { 5 0 } + \frac { 1 0 ^ { 2 } } { 5 0 } } } \approx 1 . 5 7 7 } { 1 / 5 7 7 } \\ \text {led test, the attached significance level is double the the signed}$$

/negationslash

Because this is a two-tailed test, the attained significance level is double the significance level of a one-side test, or:

$$2 \times P ( z \geq 1 . 5 7 7 ) = 2 \times 0 . 0 5 7 1 = 0 . 1 1 4 2$$