bagel is also B with probability 3 5 . You woke up to find that the first bagel is a bad one. Find the expected number of bagels that pass until another bad bagel.

## Explanation:

Let T be the number of bagels until another bad one and X 1 be the outcome of the first bagel since our present one. Then

$$\mathbb { E } _ { B } [ T ] = \mathbb { E } _ { B } [ T \, | \, B ] \mathbb { P } _ { B } [ B ] + \mathbb { E } _ { B } [ T \, | \, G ] \mathbb { P } _ { B } [ G ]$$

The subscript B is to denote that we start on a bad bagel. We have that P B [ B ] = 3 5 , so P B [ G ] = 2 5 . Then, E B [ T | G ] = 1 + E G [ T ] , as we take one step and then find the expected number of bagels starting from a good bagel until a bad bagel. Then, E B [ T | B ] = 1 , as it takes just 1 bagel to get another bad bagel if the first bagel after is bad. Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } _ { B } [ T ] = ( 1 + \mathbb { E } _ { G } [ T ] ) \cdot \frac { 2 } { 5 } + 1 \cdot \frac { 3 } { 5 } = 1 + \frac { 2 } { 5 } \cdot \mathbb { E } _ { G } [ T ]$$

Note that the distribution of the number of bagels until a bad bagel starting from a good bagel is Geom ( 3 5 ) , as there is a 3 5 probability each bagel of going to a bad bagel, so E G [ T ] = 5 3 . This implies that E B [ T ] = 1 + 2 5 · 5 3 = 5 3 .

## 1069 Animal Farm

Company :

## Prompt:

A farmer goes to the market and spends $1000 on 100 animals. The farmer buys at least one of each animal. The cost of each cow is $50 . The cost of each sheep is $10 . The cost of each chicken is $0 . 50 . Let x 1 , x 2 , and x 3 represent the number of cows, sheep, and chickens that the farmer bought, respectively. Find x 1 x 2 x 3 .

## Explanation:

From the above, we know that x 1 + x 2 + x 3 = 100 by the constraint of having 100 animals. We also know that 50 x 1 +10 x 2 +0 . 5 x 3 = 1000 by the constraint of spending 1000 total. Subtracting half of the first equation from the second yields that 49 . 5 x 1 +9 . 5 x 2 = 900 , or equivalently that 99 x 1 +19 x 2 = 1900 . We need to solve this in the integers that stay within our constraints of each 0 ≤ x i ≤ 100 . The easiest solution is to note that 99 · 19 = (100 -1) · 19 = 1900 -19 . Therefore, x 1 = 19 and x 2 = 1 is a solution to this. We leave out verification that it is the only solution satisfying our constraints. This implies now that x 3 = 100 -19 -1 = 80 . Therefore, x 1 x 2 x 3 = 19 · 1 · 80 = 1520 .