## 292 Restack Rings

Company :

## Prompt:

You have a three identical poles in front of you however one has rings in the form of a tower labeled 1 -10 ( 1 being on the top, then 2 , all the way down to 10 on the bottom). You are trying to make this same tower on one of the other poles. There are a couple constraints though. You can not move more than one ring at a time and you can't have rings with higher numbers on top of smaller numbers. How many moves does it take to remake the tower on another pole?

## Explanation:

Try to do this with smaller

n

With three rings, it takes

7

recreate the tower for any

.

If there's only one ring, it only takes moves.

n

## 293 Lily Pads I

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

A single lily pad sits in an empty pond. Everyday, the lily pad doubles in area until the whole pond is covered- it is known that it would take 10 days for the single lily pad to cover the entire pond. Imagine instead starting with 8 lily pads on the first day. How many days will it take for the surface of the pond to be covered?

## Explanation:

The 8 lily pads can be thought of as a single lily pad that is three days old, since

10

-

3 = 7

days for the surface of the pond to be covered.

## 294 Say 50!

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

You and your friend are playing a game where you each pick an integer from to a running total.

first?

The person that states

50

is the winner.

1

to

2

3

10

= 8

.

Thus, it will take inclusive and add that

You get to go first, what number do you say

1

move. With two rings, it takes

You will see, and can formally prove, that it will take

. Plugging in

n

= 10

, we arrive at the answer

1023

.

2

n

-

1

3

moves.

moves to