We want to create a risk-free portfolio using assets 1 and 2 . We will denote w 1 and w 2 as the weights of asset 1 and 2 in the portfolio respectively. What is the expected return of this portfolio? Round the answer to three significant figures.

## Explanation:

From The Perfect Hedge I, we know that the weight of asset 1 to achieve a riskless portfolio is σ 2 σ 1 + σ 2 . Denote µ as the expected return of the portfolio, and µ 1 as the return of asset 1 and µ 2 as the return of asset 2. We can then write the expected return of the portfolio as:

$$\mu = w \mu _ { 1 } + ( 1 - w ) \mu _ { 2 }$$

Plugging in the value of w from above, we get:

$$\mu & = \frac { \sigma _ { 2 } } { \sigma _ { 1 } + \sigma _ { 2 } } \mu _ { 1 } + \frac { \sigma _ { 1 } } { \sigma _ { 1 } + \sigma _ { 2 } } \mu _ { 2 } = \frac { 1 } { \sigma _ { 1 } + \sigma _ { 2 } } ( \mu _ { 1 } \sigma _ { 2 } + \mu _ { 2 } \sigma _ { 1 } ) \\ & = \frac { 1 } { \sqrt { . 1 5 } + \sqrt { . 0 4 } } ( . 0 4 * \sqrt { . 0 4 } + . 0 2 * \sqrt { . 1 5 } ) \approx . 0 2 6 8 \\$$

This means that we can combine two risky assets to obtain a risk-free portfolio of 0 . 0268 .

## 927 Unknown Baby

Company : Morgan Stanley, SIG, JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs

## Prompt:

There are 5 babies in a room: 2 boys and 3 girls. one baby with unknown sex is added. One baby is random selected and it is a boy. What's the probability that the added baby is a boy? You may assume that each gender is equally likely at birth.

## Explanation:

Let B be the event that the baby added was a boy. Let S be the event that the selected baby was a boy. We want P [ B | S ] = P [ S | B ] P [ B ] P [ S ] . We know that P [ B ] = 1 2 , as this is with no other information. We further 1

know that if the added baby was a boy, then P [ S | B ] = 2 , as there are equal amounts of boys and girls. On the denominator, we condition on B and B c . Namely,

$$\mathbb { P } [ S ] = \mathbb { P } [ S \, | \, B ] \mathbb { P } [ B ] + \mathbb { P } [ S \, | \, B ^ { c } ] \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { c } ]$$

The first term is the same as the numerator. We know that P [ B c ] = 1 2 as well. B c is the event a girl was added, so in this case, P [ S | B c ] = 1 3 , as there are only 2 boys among 6 total. Therefore, our total probability is

$$\mathbb { P } [ B \, | \, S ] = \frac { 1 / 2 \cdot 1 / 2 } { 1 / 2 \cdot 1 / 2 + 1 / 2 \cdot 1 / 3 } = \frac { 3 } { 5 }$$