Finally, if you divide the deck by 4 , you get a remainder of 3 . How many cards are in the deck?

## Explanation:

Let n be the number of cards in the deck. Let a , b , and c be some integers such that these equations hold true:

$$n - 1 = 3 a$$

$$n - 3 = 5 b$$

$$n - 3 = 4 c$$

We can rearrange the first equation to become:

$$n - 3 = 3 a - 2$$

$$n - 3 = L C M ( 3 a - 2 , 4 , 5 )$$

$$n - 3 = L C M ( 3 a - 2 , 2 0 )$$

We know that the multiples of 20 are 20 , 40 , 60 , etc but since we know we have less cards than a standard deck, we should only care about 20 and 40 . Out of these two, 40 is the number that is also divisible by 3 a -2 when a is 14 . Since

$$L C M ( 3 a - 2 , 4 , 5 ) = 4 0$$

These three equations means that or

we get n -3 = 40 which means n = 43 .

## 478 Birth Paradox

Company : None

## Prompt:

A family has 2 children, of which we know one is a boy born on a Friday. Assuming that each birthday and gender is equally likely, as well as independent of one another, find the probability that the family has 2 boys.

## Explanation:

Let B ∗ denote a boy born on a Friday, and let B denote a boy not born on a Friday. Additionally, let G denote a girl. The two ways we can obtain 2 boys is if they are both born on a Friday, or if only one of them is born on a Friday. We know at least one is a boy born on a Friday, so BB is not possible. The total ways to obtain at least one boy born on a Friday is to have the two cases above OR have one boy born on a Friday and one girl (irrelevant which day she is born on). Thus, we want P [ B ∗ B ∗ ∪ B ∗ B ] P [ B ∗ B ∗ ∪ B ∗ B ∪ B ∗ G ] . I am disregarding order of birth here, which will account for later. These are all disjoint events, so by the Kolmogorov Axioms