$$\text {Substituting this into our initial equation, } \frac { 3 1 c } { 7 } = 1 , \, \text {so } c = \frac { 7 } { 3 1 } . \text { This means } d = \frac { 2 4 } { 3 1 } .$$

Alternatively, you can create a Markov chain representing this scenario. Namely, if state 1 is dog and state 2 is cat, the Markov chain is

$$\begin{bmatrix} 3 / 4 & 1 / 4 \\ 6 / 7 & 1 / 7 \end{bmatrix}$$

The steady state of this Markov chain yields the same answer as above.

## 858 Slippery Snail

Company : Akuna, Flow Traders

## Prompt:

A snail is 30 feet away from some food. The snail moves at a rate of 4 feet per hour. However, at the end of each hour, a large gust of wind blows and the snail moves back 2 feet. The snail eats the food instantaneously once it reaches it. How many hours does it take for the snail to reach the food?

## Explanation:

For the first 13 hours, the snail moves up 4 feet and then gets blown back 2 feet, moving at a net rate of 2 feet per hour. Thus, after 13 hours, the snail is 26 feet away from the starting point. Then, in the 14 th hour, the snail will reach the 30 foot mark and eat the food instantaneously, so it takes 14 hours for the snail to eat the food.

## 859 Bull Call Spread II

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider the following asset S , with initial price S 0 = 7 . Now, let's look at a bull call spread with K 1 = 5 and K 2 = 10 . We want to price the bull call spread, but we do not have access to a computer. The only information we know is that there exists a discount factor of 0 . 9 and that the initial price is 7 . Give the best upper-bound for the price of this bull call spread.

## Explanation:

Similar to pricing via replication, we can also establish bounds using replication when we cannot do a perfect replication. If we had the prices of the calls, we could calculate the exact price of the bull-call spread through