$$E _ { 1 2 } = 2 + E _ { 1 3 } = \frac { 2 0 } { 3 } .$$

## 125 Basic Die Game VI

Company : Jane Street, Chicago Trading Company

## Prompt:

Alice rolls a fair 6 -sided die with the values 1 -6 on the sides. She sees that value showing up and then is allowed to decide whether or not she wants to roll again. Each re-roll costs $1 . Whenever she decides to stop, Alice receives a payout equal to the upface of the last die she rolled. Note that there is no limit on how many times Alice can re-roll. Assuming optimal play by Alice, what is her expected payout on this game?

## Explanation:

Let v k be the value of the game if you accept a roll of k or more and re-roll otherwise. Our optimal strategy will be in this form because we can view each round of the game as an independent trial. Therefore, our strategy should be the same between trials. Then

$$v _ { 1 } & = ( 1 / 6 ) ( 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 ) & \Rightarrow & v _ { 1 } = 7 / 2 \\ v _ { 2 } & = ( 1 / 6 ) \left ( v _ { 2 } - 1 \right ) + ( 1 / 6 ) ( 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 ) & \Rightarrow & v _ { 2 } = 1 9 / 5 \\ v _ { 3 } & = ( 2 / 6 ) \left ( v _ { 3 } - 1 \right ) + ( 1 / 6 ) ( 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 ) & \Rightarrow & v _ { 3 } = 4 \\ v _ { 4 } & = ( 3 / 6 ) \left ( v _ { 4 } - 1 \right ) + ( 1 / 6 ) ( 4 + 5 + 6 ) & \Rightarrow & v _ { 4 } = 4 \\ v _ { 5 } & = ( 4 / 6 ) \left ( v _ { 5 } - 1 \right ) + ( 1 / 6 ) ( 5 + 6 ) & \Rightarrow & v _ { 5 } = 7 / 2 \\ v _ { 6 } & = ( 5 / 6 ) \left ( v _ { 6 } - 1 \right ) + ( 1 / 6 ) ( 6 ) & \Rightarrow & v _ { 6 } = 1 \\ \intertext { s e r e a r d i v e d f o r w h e c t a t h i f w e o t a i n a v e l a t e a l e s t o r w i m i m u s p o p i n }$$

All of these are derived from the fact that if we obtain a value at least our minimum stopping value, we just stop immediately. Otherwise, we just go again and it is the same game but we lose 1 in payout from the cost of the roll. Therefore, this means that our optimal EV is 4 .

## 126 All Equal

Company : None

## Prompt:

The median, mean, and mode of 100, 40, 200, 50, 90, 60, and x are all equal to x . What is the value of x ?

## Explanation:

We are given that x is the mean. Thus,

$$x = \frac { 1 0 0 + 4 0 + 2 0 0 + 5 0 + 9 0 + 6 0 + x } { 7 } \Rightarrow x = 9 0$$