## Explanation:

Notice that we can only take one prime off the board since all the primes are divisible only by 1 and themselves. Thus for our first pick, lets choose 7 (the largest prime on the board). The taxman then takes 1 and the board becomes 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 8 , 9 , and 10 . We can't choose 2 , 3 , or 5 since they are prime and don't have any more factors. We should never choose 4 because we then can't take 8 later. In this case, the best choice to take is 9 since it is one of the larger numbers and only has one factor left ( 3 ). Now the board becomes 2 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 8 , and 10 . Out of this set, 6 is the only number with only one factor so lets take it. Now the taxman takes 2 . The board is now 4 , 5 , 8 , and 10 . Now it doesn't matter what order we take 8 and 10 , the taxman will get 4 and 5 . Thus the numbers we have are 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , and 10 which gives you a score of 40 and the taxman has 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 which gives them a score of 15 . You win with a score of 40 !

## 471 Digit Halving

Company : None

## Prompt:

Which two digit integer has the unique property that the product of its digits is equal to half of the integer?

## Explanation:

Let x = ab be our integer. Then x = 10 a + b . In addition, we know that ab = x 2 by our property, ab = 10 a + b . Solving for b , 2 ab = 10 a + b , which means that b (2 a 1) = 10 a , so b = 10 a = 5 + 5

We know that b is an integer, so this implies 5 2 a -1 is an integer. The only divisors of 5 are 1 and 5 , so 2 a -1 is either 1 or 5 . If it is 1 , then this implies b = 10 , which is impossible as b must be a singular digit. Therefore, 2 a -1 = 5 , so a = 3 . Plugging this in, b = 6 . Therefore, the integer is 36 .

so 2 -2 a -1 2 a -1 .

## 472 Throwing Darts II

Company : Citadel, DRW, Belvedere Trading

## Prompt:

You throw 3 darts that land uniformly randomly on a circular dartboard composed of three concentric circles with radii 1ft, 2ft, and 3ft. Assuming the dart lands on the dartboard, what is the probability that at least one of the darts land in the inner ring (within the 1ft circle)?

## Explanation:

We first want to calculate the probability of one dart landing in the inner ring. Because the dart lands uniformly at random on the board, we can calculate the probability as the ratio of the area of the inner ring