card in the box that has card 100 in it? The answer is in the form a (1 -a -b ) for integers a and b . Find ab .

## Explanation:

We will want to use our alternate form of expectation for non-negative integer-valued random variables E [ X ] = ∞ ∑ k =1 P [ X ≥ k ] . In this case, our random variable X is the smallest value of cards in the box with card 100 . The event { X ≥ k } means that all of cards valued 1 , 2 , . . . , k -1 are in the other box. Each of those cards is in the other box with probability 1 2 , so P [ X ≥ k ] = 1 2 k -1 . The maximal smallest value is 100 , which occurs in the event that 100 is the only card in the box it is placed in. Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } [ X ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 1 0 0 } \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { k - 1 } } = \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { 9 9 } \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { k } } = \frac { 1 - 2 ^ { - 1 0 0 } } { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 2 } } = 2 - 2 ^ { - 9 9 } = 2 ( 1 - 2 ^ { - 1 0 0 } )$$

This means the answer to our question is 2 · 100 = 200 .

## 774 Lock and Key Pair

Company :

## Prompt:

There are 5 keys that unlock exactly one of 5 locks. Assuming an optimal strategy, what is the maximum number of times you need to try the locks to identify which key unlocks each lock?

## Explanation:

Try 4 of the keys on the first lock. If any work, then we can stop early. However, the worst case scenario is that the one we don't test is the one that works, in which we would attempt all 4 keys. Similarly, of the 4 remaining unassigned keys, pick 3 of them to test. Repeat this with 3 locks and 2 locks left to yield 2 and 1 attempts, respectively. Therefore, we need to try the locks a total of 4 + 3 + 2 + 1 = 10 times.

## 775 Maximize Head Ratio II

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Say that you are flipping a fair coin where you can stop flipping whenever you want. Your goal is to maximize the ratio between the number of heads you get with the total number of flips. The ratios are in the form a : 1 . What is the expectation of a when you follow the strategy of stopping when you have more heads than tails? Round your answer to the nearest thousandths.