To calculate E [ X i I N ≥ i ] , it is easiest to condition on the value of X i . This is because of the fact that it is easy to evaluate the probability all of the remaining values are at least X i from this. Therefore, E [ X i I N ≥ i ] = E [ E [ X i I N ≥ i | X i ]] = E [ X i E [ I N ≥ i | X i ]] . This expectation on the inside evaluates to the probability that given X i , 1 &gt; X 1 &gt; . . . X i -1 &gt; X i . The probability all of the first i -1 random variables are at least as large as X i is (1 -X i ) i -1 , as it occurs with probability 1 -X i independently for each random variable. The probability that X 1 &gt; X 2 &gt; · · · &gt; X i -1 is 1 ( i -1)! , as there are ( i -1)! equally likely orderings of the IID values and this is one of them. Therefore, as the ordering and the restriction on the minimum value are independent, E [ I N ≥ i | X i ] = (1 -X i ) i -1 ( i -1)! . Therefore, E [ X i I N ≥ i ] = E [ X i (1 -X i ) i -1 ( i -1)! ] .

Using LOTUS,

$$\mathbb { E } \left [ \frac { ( 1 - X _ { i } ) ^ { i - 1 } } { ( i - 1 ) ! } \right ] & = \int _ { 0 } ^ { 1 } t \cdot \frac { ( 1 - t ) ^ { i - 1 } } { ( i - 1 ) ! } \cdot 1 d t \\ & = \frac { 1 } { ( i - 1 ) ! } \int _ { 0 } ^ { 1 } t ( 1 - t ) ^ { i - 1 } d t \\ & = \frac { \Gamma ( i ) \Gamma ( 2 ) } { \Gamma ( i + 2 ) } \cdot \frac { 1 } { \Gamma ( i ) } \\ & = \frac { 1 } { ( i + 1 ) ! } \\ \intertext { s u r g } \mathbb { m } { f } t h s . B r t a n g a l l \int _ { \Omega } ^ { 1 } t ^ { ( i ) } a ^ { - 1 } ( 1 - \Gamma ( i ) } \\ \intertext { s u r g } \mathbb { m } { f } t h s . B r t a n g a l l \int _ { \Omega } ^ { 1 } t ^ { ( i ) } a ^ { - 1 } ( 1 - \Gamma ( i ) } \\ \intertext { s u r g } \mathbb { m } { f } t h s . B r t a n g a l l \int _ { \Omega } ^ { 1 } t ^ { ( i ) } a ^ { - 1 } ( 1 - \Gamma ( i ) }$$

Note that this is because of the Beta integral ∫ 1 0 t a -1 (1 -t ) b -1 dt = Γ ( a ) Γ ( b ) Γ ( a + b ) . Using this, we can sum the series:

$$\mathbb { E } [ S ] = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { i } ( i + 1 ) ! } = 2 \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { i + 1 } ( i + 1 ) ! } = 2 \sum _ { i = 2 } ^ { \infty } \frac { \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { i } } { i ! } \\$$

This last sum is just that of √ e without the i = 0 and i = 1 terms. Therefore, that sum evaluates to √ e -1 -1 2 · 1! = √ e -3 2 . Substituting this in, E [ S ] = 2 √ e -3 . This means a = 2 , c = -3 , b = 1 2 . This implies a 2 + c 2 +4 b = 15 .

## 779 Paying Bail

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

You have been arrested and need to post bail. You have a bag of $100 bills of which one half are real and the other half are fake. You need to pay $500 for bail. Every time you give the jail a fake bill, the funds you have given are given back to you and you need to start again. How many bills will you have to pull out of the bag on average? Assume the probability of drawing each type of bill is constant per trial.