Therefore,

## 591 Elliptical Area

Company :

## Prompt:

An ellipse is centered at the origin. Let A and B be the horizontal and vertical radii lengths of the ellipse, respectively. Assume that A,B ∼ Exp (1) and are independent. Recall that the area of an ellipse with radii a and b is given by π ab . A circle with diameter A is created as well. Find the probability the area of the circle is larger than the area of the ellipse.

## Explanation:

Let E and C be the areas of the ellipse and circle, respectively. We are looking for P [ E &lt; C ] . We have that C = π 4 A 2 by the formula for the area of a circle (note that the radius of the circle is A/ 2 ).

We want P [ C &gt; E ] = P [ π 4 A 2 &gt; π AB ] = P [ A &gt; 4 B ] by substituting in the definitions and simplifying. We now have a region in the plane we can integrate the joint density of A and B over to obtain this probability. The joint density of A and B is easily obtained by multiplying the individual densities together, as they are independent, so f ( a, b ) = e -( a + b ) I (0 , ∞ ) ( a ) I (0 , ∞ ) ( b ) . Thus, we have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ A > 4 B ] = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } \int _ { 4 b } ^ { \infty } e ^ { - ( a + b ) } d a d b = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } e ^ { - 5 b } d b = \frac { 1 } { 5 }$$

## 592 Generous Banker

Company :

## Prompt:

You are at the bank and it is your lucky day. The banker is going pick random positive integer and you are too. You are both allowed to determine the probability distribution on the positive integers that you select from. If you and the banker select the same value, say n , you receive n 2 dollars. Otherwise, you receive nothing. Neither party knows the distribution the other selected. Assuming optimal strategy from both parties, what is your expected payout from this game? The answer will be in the form a π b for integers a and b . Find ab .

$$\mathbb { E } \left [ Z \right ] & = 1 + \sum _ { i = 2 } ^ { 1 0 0 } \frac { 5 0 } { 9 9 } \\ & = 5 1$$