the number of arrangements in which at any point, there have been more people with a $10 bill purchasing the ticket than the $5 bill.

A way to think about this problem is to let someone with a $5 bill be an ( and someone with a $10 bill be a ) . The equivalent formulation of the problem above is to count the number of proper parenthesizations of 19 ( and and 19 ) . This is equivalent because of the fact that a proper parenthesization can't have more closing parentheses than opening parentheses at any point throughout. For example, in the 2 opening and closing case, (()) and ()() are valid, but )(() and ())( are not valid. This problem is well-known to be solved by the Catalan numbers. In particular, the number of proper parenthesizations with n opening and closing parentheses is C n = 1 n +1 ( 2 n n ) .

In the above, we are only identifying people by their bill number. This means that there are ( 2 n n ) distinct arrangements of people in the line with n of each type. Therefore, our final probability is just 1 n +1 by division. In particular, n = 19 here, so the answer is 1 20 .

## 862 Mean Difference

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that X 1 , . . . , X 10 are independent random variables such that µ i = E [ X i ] = 2 i -1 and Var ( X i ) = 100 AKA there is a common variance 100 but not a common mean. Define µ = 1 10 10 ∑ i =1 µ i . Compute E [( X 1 -X ) 2 ] .

## Explanation:

We are going to generalize this to any µ i and any number n . Using our known relationship between the second moment and variance, we should think to consider Var ( X 1 -X ) . We will also generalize to consider any X i instead of just X 1 . We know that

$$V a r ( X _ { i } - \overline { X } ) = \mathbb { E } [ ( X _ { i } - \overline { X } ) ^ { 2 } ] - ( \mathbb { E } [ X _ { i } - \overline { X } ] ) ^ { 2 }$$

Note that by linearity of expectation, the second term is just ( µ i -µ ) 2 . For Var ( X i -X ) , we know that by the generalized formula for variance, this is

$$V a r ( X _ { i } ) + V a r ( \overline { X } ) - 2 C o v ( X _ { i } , \overline { X } )$$