## 333 Bacterial Survival II

Company : Jane Street, Morgan Stanley

## Prompt:

There is one bacterium on a cell plate. After every minute, the bacterium may die, stay the same, split into two, or split into three with equal probabilities. Assuming all bacteria behave the same and independent of other bacteria, what is the probability that the bacterial population will die out? The answer is in the form √ a -b for integers a and b . Find a + b .

## Explanation:

Let x be the probability that the bacterial population will die out. There are 4 total possibilities for the first bacterium: either it dies, stays the same, splits into two, or splits into three. In the first case, the bacterial population dies with probability 1. In the second case, the bacterial population dies with probability x , since the bacterial population dies when the bacterium that stays the same dies, which happens with probability x . In the third case, the bacterial population dies with probability x 2 , as both bacteria that are formed must die in order for the population to die. In the fourth and final case, the bacterial population dies with probability x 3 , as all three bacteria that are formed must die in order for the population to die. Thus, we can write

$$x = \frac { 1 } { 4 } \times 1 + \frac { 1 } { 4 } x + \frac { 1 } { 4 } x ^ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } x ^ { 3 } = \sqrt { 2 } - 1 \approx 0 . 4 1$$

Therefore, our answer is 2 + 1 = 3 .

## 334 Flash Drive Finders

Company : None

## Prompt:

Gabe lost a flash drive on which $500000 of Bitcoin is stored. If he doesn't find it in a week, he'll lose all his money. Luckily, professional flash drive finders are up for hire at a rate of $5000 per week. Suppose each flash drive finder has an 90% chance of locating the lost flash drive. How many flash drive finders should Gabe hire?

## Explanation:

To make computation easier for ourselves, we'll consider the amounts in $5000 units. Gabe's flashdrive is worth 100 units, and each flash drive finder costs 1 unit per week.

Suppose Gabe hires n fl ash drive finders. Then, the probability that none of the flash drive finders find the flash drive is ( 1 10 ) n . Gabe's expected payoff is then ( 1 -( 1 10 ) n ) 100 -n . Our problem becomes the