Alternatively, fix one color on any given side. The second color among blue, green, and red has a 4 5 chance of sharing an edge with the first color (only the side opposite of the first color doesn't share an edge). Then, after that, 2 of the remaining 4 sides share one of the two vertices in common with the other two sides. Thus, the probability is 4 5 · 1 2 = 2 5

## 840 Colorless Sides

Company : Citadel, SIG, Jane Street, Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

A 3Ã3Ã3 cube that is colored red on the outside is cut into 27 1Ã1Ã1 smaller cubes. A random cube is selected from these 27 and you see five sides without any color. What is the probability that the cube has one colored side?

## Explanation:

Given that we have new information entering this problem (that we can see 5 sides are not painted), we need to update the probability that the chosen cube has a colored side. Thus, we have to use Bayes theorem. Let S be the event of the cube having exactly one colored side and B being the event that the five sides of the cube shown are blank. Then we have

$$\mathbb { P } [ S | B ] = \frac { \mathbb { P } [ B | S ] \cdot \mathbb { P } [ S ] } { \mathbb { P } [ B ] }$$

There's a 1 6 chance that a one colored side cube has the painted side not showing. Thus P [ B | S ] = 1 6 . And since there's 6 cubes that have only one painted face out of 27 . Thus P [ S ] = 6 27 = 2 9 . Finally, the probability we have a cube that shows five unpainted sides is 1 6 · 2 9 from the cubes with one painted side and 1 · 1 27 from the center cube with no painted sides. Combining everything together we get

$$\mathbb { P } [ S \, | \, B ] = \frac { \mathbb { P } [ B \, | \, S ] \cdot \mathbb { P } [ S ] } { \mathbb { P } [ B ] } = \frac { \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot \frac { 2 } { 9 } } { \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot \frac { 2 } { 9 } + 1 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 7 } } = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

## 841 Rotation Matrix Ranked

Company :

## Prompt:

Let R α , β , γ be the rotation matrix in R 3 by α , β , and γ radians CCW about the x, y, and z axes, respectively. For any fixed α , β , and γ , compute ( rank ( R α , β , γ )) 2 +( null ( R α , β , γ )) 2 .