if the event occurs and 0 otherwise. The current value of the contract is the cost to enter the contract (or the credit you gain if you short).

```
Contract 1: Trump wins the 2020 election (yes, no): $0.17, $0.83 Contract 2: Which party wins Arizona (Democrat, Republican): $0.80, $0.20 Contract 3: Which party wins Georgia (Democrat, Republican): $0.56, $0.44
```

Contract 4: Which party will win Pennsylvania (Democrat, Republican): $0.84, $0.16

For example, if you buy the Trump does not win the 2020 election contract, it will cost 0 . 83 , which will be worth $1 . 00 if he does not win, and $0 . 00 if he does win. Also, assume that Trump will only win the election if he wins all three states: Arizona, Georgia, and Pennsylvania. Find the arbitrage opportunity. Give the answer in the format of the absolute value of the credit (in dollars) you obtain to enter the position.

## Explanation:

We can see that Pennsylvania (Trump) will pay 1 . 00 in every outcome where the 2020 election (Trump) pays 1 . 00 due to the condition mentioned above. When looking at the initial costs, we can see that the payoff of Pennsylvania (Trump) dominates the payoff of 2020 election (Trump). This gives an arbitrage opportunity as this contract shouldn't be worth less than the US election. We will long the undervalued contract, and short the overvalued contract. In other words, we can long 1 unit of Pennsylvania (Trump) and short 1 unit of 2020 election (Trump) and receive a credit of 0 . 16 -0 . 17 = -$0 . 01 .

Here, regardless of the outcome, we can see that we cannot lose money. If Trump wins the election, we will keep our 1 cent as the final value of our portfolio will be 1 -1 = 0 . If Trump only wins Pennsylvania, we have a value of 1 -0 = 1 . Finally, if Trump loses Pennsylvania, we have a value of 0 -0 = 0 . In all cases, we get to (at least) keep our 1 cent credit.

## 393 Reflip

Company : None

## Prompt:

You are given 8 fair coins and flip all of them at once. Afterwards, you are allowed to reflip as many coins as you would like one time each. At the end, you are given $ 1 per head that appears. Assuming optimal play, find the fair value of this game.

## Explanation:

Once you flip all of the coins for the first time, you would only want to reflip the tails because flipping the heads again risks you losing the value of the heads that are already present. At the end of two flips, the probability a coin did not show tails in either flip is just 1 2 2 = 1 4 because of the independence of the outcomes.