This is a linear first order differential equation, so we can use the method of integrating factors here. In particular, the integrating factor is µ ( x ) = e ∫ 1 dx = e x . Multiplying this on both sides, ( e x f ( x )) ′ = 2 xe x , meaning e x f ( x ) = ∫ 2 xe x dx = 2 e x ( x -1) + C . This means that f ( x ) = 2 x -2 + Ce -x . Using our initial condition f (1) = 1 , this yields C = e , so f ( x ) = 2( x -1) + e 1 -x . In particular, f (0) = e -2 , so our answer is 1 -2 = -1 .

For a sanity check, we can note that the answer to this question and the answer to Decreasing Uniform Chain sum to 1 . This makes perfect sense. If X i ∼ Unif (0 , 1) , then 1 -X i ∼ Unif (0 , 1) , so there is a symmetry between the two problems.

## 391 Repetitious Game I

Company :

## Prompt:

Audrey is playing a game. She flips a fair coin repeatedly until she gets two heads in a row, after which she finishes the game. Determine the expected number of coin flips.

## Explanation:

If Audrey gets tails on her first toss (which has probability 1 / 2 ), then she must start over again. If Audrey gets heads on her first toss, then she can either get HH or HT after her second toss (each with probability 1 / 4 ). If Audrey gets HT , then she must start over again. Otherwise, she is finished with the game. Let X denote the number of tosses before Audrey finishes the game. From our reasoning above, we can write:

$$\mathbb { E } [ X ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left ( \mathbb { E } [ X ] + 1 \right ) + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \left ( \mathbb { E } [ X ] + 2 \right ) + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot 2$$

We can now solve for E [ X ] .

$$\mathbb { E } [ X ] = \frac { 6 } { 4 } \cdot 4 = 6$$

## 392 Presidential Options

Company :

## Prompt:

You have access to 4 different contracts that correspond to the 2020 US Presidential election. These contracts pay 1 if the outcome occurs and 0 otherwise. You are allowed to short contracts, in which the payout is -1