## Explanation:

Its worth noting that it doesn't matter what each player flips in their first two flips. They'll each have a 1 2 chance to get the other flip they need after each of their first flips and assuming they have the coin. Thus, starting on the third flip, Alice will have a 1 2 chance to win the game right there. If she doesn't get the other flip she needed on the third flip, Alice needs Bob to flip what he flipped previously. If that happens, we start back at a state similar to the third flip. Given this, we can model this situation as a singular state equation. Say P is the probability that Alice wins in the state of the third flip (both Alice and Bob need one specific roll). Then Alice will win half the time and a fourth of the time we repeat the same state. So

$$P = \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P$$

Thus P = 2 3 which is the probability Alice wins.

## 277 The Last Airbender

Company : None

## Prompt:

Four cards labelled water, earth, fire, and air are placed in front of you faced down. You flip each of the cards over one at a time. You win if you flip over both the air and water cards before the fire card. Otherwise, you lose. What is the probability that you win?

## Explanation:

The earth card is absent from our sample space and thus does not affect your probability of winning. Imagine ordering the remaining three cards in the order that you flip them- there are a total of 3! possible permutations. Of these permutations, favorable outcomes are those where the first two cards are air then water or water then air. Thus, the probability that you win is:

$$\frac { 2 } { 3 ! } = \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

## 278 Observing Cars

Company : Jane Street, Akuna, SIG, Optiver

## Prompt:

You are standing at a bus stop watching cars go by. The probability of observing at least one accident in an hour interval is 3 4 . What is the probability of observing at least one accident within thirty minutes? Assume that the probability of observing an accident at any moment within an hour interval is uniform.