There are two cases to consider here. In the first case, we have that y &lt; 50 , in which the 0 . 02 y term doesn't overflow into another dollar. In this case, we would have that 2 x = y and 0 . 02 y = 0 . 01 x -0 . 05 . If this was true, then 0 . 04 x = 0 . 01 x -0 . 05 , which would means that x &lt; 0 , which is impossible. Therefore, we have that y ≥ 50 , in which y = 2 x +1 , as we overflow into another dollar. Additionally, we would have that 0 . 02 y -1 = 0 . 01 x -0 . 05 . Substituting in here,

$$0 . 0 2 ( 2 x + 1 ) - 1 = 0 . 0 1 x - 0 . 0 5 \iff 0 . 0 3 x = 0 . 9 9 \iff x = 3 1$$

Then we have that y = 2 · 31 + 1 = 63 . Therefore, his check was for 31 . 63 .

## 90 Questionable Values

Company : GSA Capital

## Prompt:

Sean is creating questions for QuantGuide. Each easy question is worth $3 , while each medium question is worth $6 . He has a question storage saved up of easy and medium questions. If Sean picks a question at random, the probability it is a medium is 1 / 4 . The total value of Sean's question bank is a perfect square. What is the smallest possible value of his question bank (in dollars)?

## Explanation:

There must be exact three times as many easy questions as medium so that the probability of a medium is 1 / 4 . Thus, we can group the questions up into groups of 3 easy and 1 medium question, which sum to $15 . We need to find the minimum number of groups, say n , such that 15 n is a perfect square. This would occur for the first time exactly when n = 15 , so his question bank is worth 15 2 = 225 .

## 91 Poisson Review II

Company :

## Prompt:

On average, 7 customers arrive at the QuantGuide gift shop per hour following a Poisson process. Suppose it takes 10 minutes to serve each customer. Compute the sum of the mean and variance of total service time in hours for customers arriving in a given 1 hour period.

## Explanation:

$$& \text {Explanation} \colon \\ & \quad \text {Let } X \sim \text {Poisson} ( 7 ) . \ \text {In} \, \text {hours, the total service time is } \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot X . \ \text {We wish to compute } \mathbb { E } \left [ \frac { 1 } { 6 } X \right ] + \text {Var} \left [ \frac { 1 } { 6 } x \right ] = \\ & \frac { 1 } { 6 } \mathbb { E } \left [ X \right ] + \frac { 1 } { 3 6 } \text {Var} \left [ X \right ] = \frac { 4 9 } { 3 6 }$$