## 261 Pairwise Digit Sums II

Company : None

## Prompt:

Let A be the set of 5 digit integers such that all pairwise sums of digits are unique. For example, a three digit number with this property is 174 . Let x and y be the minimal and maximal elements of A , respectively. Find y -x .

## Explanation:

We will start with the largest number. Start in the left-most position with 9 . Then, the second digit from left should be 8 . We can't have replicate digits, as otherwise, we could pair any other digit in the number with either one of the two repeated digits and get the same sum. Then, the next digit is 7 , as we still have all unique digit sums. Therefore, our number is in the form 987 ab , with a and b still to be determined. a can't be 6 , as 6 + 9 = 7 + 8 . However, with a = 5 , we still maintain all unique digit sums. Thus, our form is 9875 b . If b = 4 , then 4 + 9 = 8 + 5 . If b = 3 , then 3 + 9 = 5 + 7 . However, with b = 2 , we get all unique digit sums. Therefore, y = 98752 .

For the smallest, the smallest first digit is 1 . Then, the smallest second digit is 0 . The smallest third digit is 2 . Thus, our number is in the form 102 cd . If c = 3 , 1 + 2 = 3 + 0 , but for c = 4 , we still maintain unique sums. Therefore, our form is 1024 d . If d = 5 , then 5 + 0 = 4 + 1 . If d = 6 , then 6 + 0 = 4 + 2 . However, for d = 7 , we maintain unique sums, so x = 10247 . Therefore, y -x = 88505 .

## 262 Make Your Martingale V

Company :

## Prompt:

Let W t be a standard Brownian Motion. Define a process Y t = ∫ t 0 sdW s . Furthermore, define a process Z t = tY t -a t for some process a t . Let a t be specifically selected so that Z t is a martingale. The form of a t is a t = k ∫ t 0 Y s ds for a constant k . Find k .

## Explanation:

We can quickly compute dY t = tdW t quite simply. First, let f ( t, y ) = ty . We can see that f t ( t, y ) = y, f y ( t, y ) = t, and f yy ( t, y ) = 0 . Therefore, by Ito's Formula, dZ t = Y t dt + t 2 dW t . Therefore, if a t = ∫ t 0 Y s ds , Z t would be a martingale. This is because da t = Y t dt , so it would cancel out the Y t dt that currently exists in dZ t . Therefore, this means k = 1 .