able to practically extract that value. So in theory, the option keeps it initial value, but practically you are unable to extract it.

## 529 The Big Three

Company : Two Sigma, Jane Street

## Prompt:

Suppose we roll 5 standard fair dice and sum the upfaces of the largest 3 values showing. Find the probability that the sum is 18 .

## Explanation:

To obtain a sum of 18 from three dice, we need to have at least 3 sixes among the 5 dice. Therefore, we really are just asking for the probability of 3 , 4 , or 5 sixes among 5 die rolls. The probability of 5 sixes is just 1 6 5 , as it is just 1 6 probability for each die. The probability of 4 sixes is 5 · 5 6 · 1 6 4 , as we have 5 ways to select the die that isn't a 6 , a 5 6 probability that the select die is not a 6 , and then 1 6 probability for each of the other 4 dice to be a 6 . Lastly, the probability that we have exactly 3 sixes is ( 5 2 ) · ( 5 6 ) 2 · 1 6 3 . This is because there are ( 5 2 ) = 10 ways to pick the two dice that aren't a 6 , 5 6 probability for each of them to not be a 6 , and 1 6 probability for each of the remaining three dice to be a 6 . Adding all of these up yields

$$\frac { 1 } { 6 ^ { 5 } } + \frac { 2 5 } { 6 ^ { 5 } } + \frac { 2 5 0 } { 6 ^ { 5 } } = \frac { 2 7 6 } { 6 ^ { 5 } } = \frac { 2 3 } { 6 4 8 }$$

## 530 3 Ace

Company : Goldman Sachs

## Prompt:

You are dealt 5 cards from a standard deck. You are told at least 3 of the cards are of the same rank. Find the probability your hand contains all 4 cards of some rank.

## Explanation:

There are 48 · 13 = 624 hands that consist of all 4 suits of some rank. This is because there are 13 ways to pick the rank in which we have all 4 suit. Then, there are 48 ways to pick the last card. We just need to divide this by the total number of hands with at least 3 cards of some rank. We know 624 hands have exactly 4 of some rank. Therefore, we can just count the number of hands with exactly 3 cards of some rank. There are 13 ways to pick the rank that we have 3 of. There are 4 ways to pick the suit that is excluded from our