## Prompt:

Suppose that you run OLS regression on some dataset and obtain an R 2 value of 0 . 56 . If you were to run linear regression again on the dataset where you duplicate each point in your original dataset, what would R 2 be? If it cannot be determined, enter -1 .

## Explanation:

Recall that R 2 = 1 -SSE SST . With twice the data that is identical to the original, the new SSE is exactly twice what it was before, as we have duplicated every data point and the mean is unchanged. For this same reason, SST also doubles. Therefore, the ratio SSE SST is unchanged, meaning that R 2 is unchanged from before.

## 746 Bowl Distributions

Company : None

## Prompt:

How many ways can 7 white balls and 8 black balls be distributed into 5 bowls such that each bowl receives exactly 3 balls?

## Explanation:

Once the white balls are distributed, there exists only one way for the black balls to be distributed such that each bowl gets 3 balls. There are ( 7+5 -1 5 -1 ) = 330 ways to do this without restrictions. However, we need to ensure that no bowl gets more than 3 white balls. Luckily for us, only one bowl can get more than 3 balls, which means we can avoid PIE. There are 5 ways to choose a bowl to assign 4 white balls to. Then, the remaining 3 balls need to be partitioned amongst the 5 bowls; there are a total of ( 3+5 -1 5 -1 ) = 35 ways to do this. Our answer is

$$3 3 0 - 5 \cdot 3 5 = 1 5 5$$

## 747 Brownian Difference

Company :

## Prompt:

$$\text {Let } B _ { t } \text { be standard Brownian Motion. Fix } t > 0 , \text { and define } \Delta _ { m , n } = B _ { t m ^ { 2 - n } } - B _ { t ( m - 1 ) ^ { 2 - n } } . \text { Evaluate} \\ \mathbb { E } \left [ \left ( \sum _ { m = 1 } ^ { 2 ^ { n } } \Delta _ { m , n } ^ { 2 } - t \right ) \right ] \text { as a function of } n \text { and } t . \text { Evaluate this function with } t = 1 \text { and } n = 5 .$$