## Explanation:

The volume of the cylinder is π r 2 h . The volume of the cone that is inside this cylinder is 1 3 π r 2 h . Therefore, since we select uniformly at random from the cylinder, the probability it lies in the cone is 1 3 π r 2 h π r 2 h = 1 3

## 166 Russian Roulette IV

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You're playing a game of Russian Roulette with a friend. The six-chambered revolver is loaded with two consecutively placed bullets. Initially, the cylinder is spun to randomize the order of the chambers. Your friend goes first, and lives after the first trigger pull. You are then given the choice to either spin the barrel or not before pulling the trigger. What is the different in probability of you surviving between not spinning and spinning the barrel?

## Explanation:

If you spin the barrel, the probability that you survive is 4 6 . If you don't spin the barrel, the probability that you survive is 3 4 . To understand this case, let us define the chambers 1-6 and further define chambers 5 and 6 to hold the two consecutive bullets, without loss of generality. Because our friend survives, we know that he shot either chambers 1, 2, 3, or 4. Of these 4 equal possibilities, only one of these leads to our loss (if he shot the fourth chamber, then the following is a bullet); hence, the probability of survival in this case is 3 4 and the difference between these probabilities is:

$$\frac { 3 } { 4 } - \frac { 2 } { 3 } = \frac { 1 } { 1 2 }$$

## 167 Confused Ant II

Company : Akuna, Jane Street, WorldQuant

## Prompt:

An ant walks the corner of a 3D cube and moves to one of the three adjacent vertices with equal probability at each step. Find the expected number of steps needed for the ant to return to the vertex it started at.

## Explanation:

This seems like a very complicated problem on the surface but you can actually use Markov Chains to solve this problem. There is a lot of symmetry in cubes to help us decrease the number of states involved in this question. Letâs let your starting state be E 00 . No matter which way the ant goes, by symmetry itâll basically always be the same position. That position being 1 side length away from the starting vertex. Lets denote