Note that the distribution of the number of days until a bad day starting from a good day is Geom ( 2 5 ) , as there is a 2 5 probability each day of going to a bad day, so E G [ T ] = 5 2 . This implies that E B [ T ] = 1+ 3 10 · 5 2 = 7 4 .

## 251 Sample Size for Z

Company : None

## Prompt:

When deciding on using the Z test, as the sample size increases, the sampling distribution is considered to be approximately normally distributed. At what sample size does the Z test become approximately normal and thus viable, under the Central Limit Theorem?

## Explanation:

As a rule of thumb, a sample size of at least 30 is appropriate. Furthermore, the difference in Z and T test results converge to 0 as the sample size approaches infinity.

## 252 Terminating Sum

Company :

## Prompt:

Evaluate ∑ k ∈ S 1 k 3 , where S is the set of all positive integers such that 1 k has a terminating decimal expansion.

For example, 2 ∈ S , as 1 2 = 0 . 5 has a finite expansion. However, 7 / ∈ S , as 1 7 = 0 . 142857 does not terminate.

## Explanation:

The prime factorization of 100 is 100 = 2 2 · 5 2 . Therefore, whatever denominator we have must be in the form k = 2 a 5 b for it to terminate in finite length. If we select a denominator that is not in this form, we end up with a decimal that will repeat forever, as it is not cleanly divisible into 10 . Therefore, our sum can really be written as

$$\sum _ { a = 0 } ^ { \infty } \sum _ { b = 0 } ^ { \infty } \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { a } 5 ^ { b } } \right ) ^ { 3 } = \sum _ { a = 0 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { 8 ^ { a } } \sum _ { b = 0 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { 1 2 5 ^ { b } } = \frac { 1 } { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 8 } } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 1 2 5 } } = \frac { 8 } { 7 } \cdot \frac { 1 2 5 } { 1 2 4 } = \frac { 2 5 0 } { 2 1 7 }$$

## 253 Shoe Manufacturing

Company : None