Let R l,t denote the returns of the strategy where we guess lower for the second roll with first roll being t and Y be the value of the second roll. Then E [ R l,t ] = E [ R l,t | Y &lt; t ] P [ Y &lt; t ] + E [ R l,t | Y ≥ t ] P [ Y ≥ t ] by Law of Total Expectation. The second term evaluates to 0 , since we receive no payout if we guess incorrectly. Given Y &lt; t , we know that the value is discrete uniform on { 1 , 2 , . . . , t -1 } , which has a mean of t 2 . The probability of observing a value that is strictly less than t is t -1 100 , as there are t -1 integers in { 1 , 2 , . . . , t -1 } . Therefore, E [ R l,t ] = 1 100 · t ( t -1) 2 .

Similarly, let R h,t denote the returns of the strategy where we guess higher for the second roll with the first roll being t and Y be the value of the second roll. Then E [ R h,t ] = E [ R h,t | Y &lt; t ] P [ Y &lt; t ] + E [ R h,t | Y ≥ t ] P [ Y ≥ t ] by Law of Total Expectation. The first term evaluates to 0 , since we receive no payout if we guess incorrectly. Given Y ≥ t , we know that the value is discrete uniform on { t, t +1 , . . . , 100 } , which has mean 100 + t 2 . The probability of rolling a value at least t is 100 -( t -1) 100 , as it is the complement of the previous probability. Therefore, the expected payout in this case is 1 100 · (100 + t )(101 -t ) 2

We now want to find the point of indifference i.e. when are the expected returns between guessing higher and lower equal. Note that E [ R l,t ] is increasing in t while E [ R h,t ] is decreasing in t . This means that for whatever t ∗ these two functions are equal at, we will guess lower for any value &gt; t ∗ and higher for any value ≤ t ∗ on the first roll. After cancelling denominators, we must solve (100 + t )(101 -t ) = t ( t -1) . This can be rearranged to -2 t 2 +2 t +10100 = 0 , at which

$$t ^ { * } = \frac { - 2 \pm \sqrt { 4 - 4 ( - 2 ) ( 1 0 1 0 0 ) } } { 2 ( - 2 ) } = \frac { - 2 \pm \sqrt { 8 0 8 0 4 } } { - 4 }$$

Clearly, we are going need to subtract the square root, as otherwise t ∗ will be negative. Once we do this, we see our threshold is approximately 71 . 57 . Therefore, if our first roll is ≥ 72 , we will guess lower for the second roll, meaning 72 is the answer.

## 944 Min Card

Company :

## Prompt:

John has a standard deck of 52 cards. John identifies the ranks of the cards as 1 -13 , where Ace is 1 and King is 13 . He selects 4 cards uniformly at random from the deck. He then looks at the 4 cards he selected and removes the lowest ranked card from the subset of 4 and discards it. Afterwards, he selects another card