We calculate E [ U k ] by LOTUS as well. Namely, E [ U k ] = ∫ 0 . 5 0 2 x k dx = 2 x k +1 k +1 ∣ ∣ ∣ 0 . 5 0 = 1 2 k ( k +1) . This exactly matches with the terms in the summation in the question. Therefore, the sum is ln(4) , meaning a = 4 .

## 666 Sock Drawer II

Company :

## Prompt:

In a drawer, Sandy has 5 pairs of socks, each pair a different color. On monday, Sandy selects two individual socks at random from the 10 socks in the drawer. On Tuesday, Sandy selects two of the remaining 8 socks at random, and on Wednesday, two of the remaining 6 socks at random. Find the probability that Wednesday is the first day Sandy selects matching socks.

## Explanation:

Consider the number of ways for Sandy to pick out a matching pair on Monday and fail to do so on Tuesday and Wednesday. This is equal to the number of ways for her to pick out a matching pair on Wednesday and fail to do so on Monday and Tuesday, as any order of these three pairs of socks is equally likely. This is simply 5 matching pairs to choose from on Monday, ( 8 2 ) -4 ways to choose an unmatched pair on Tuesday, and ( 6 2 ) -2 ways to choose an unmatched pair on Wednesday. The total number of ways to choose pairs for the three days is ( 10 2 , 2 , 2 , 4 ) = 10! 2! 3 · 4! . This works out to

$$\frac { 5 \cdot 2 4 \cdot 1 3 } { 4 5 \cdot 2 8 \cdot 1 5 } = \frac { 2 6 } { 3 1 5 }$$

If you failed to notice the symmetry during an interview, it is possible to obtain the same answer through careful casework in conditioning on the results of each day.

## 667 5 Pairwise Sum

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

Let S = { a, b, c, d, e } be a set of 5 (possibly repeated) real numbers. The pair sums of elements in S are:

$$5 , 1 1 , 1 1 , 1 3 , 1 3 , 1 4 , 1 6 , 1 9 , 2 2 , 2 2$$

Find a 2 + b 2 + c 2 + d 2 + e 2 .