that a dodeca-rectangle cannot be formed.

## Explanation:

There are 2 12 ways to color the 12 vertices. We can break down the solution into the following three cases: (1) there are zero same-colored opposing vertices, (2) there is exactly one pair of same-colored opposing vertices, and (3) there is exactly 1 red-red opposing pair of vertices and 1 blue-blue opposing pair of vertices.

Case 1: We set colors for vertices 1-6; there are 2 6 ways to do so. Then, vertices 7-12 are set. There are 2 6 ways to have zero same-colored opposing vertices.

Case 2: We set colors for vertices 1-6; there are 2 6 ways to do so. We choose 1 of vertices 7-12 to color identically to the opposite vertex; there are ( 6 1 ) = 6 ways to do so. There are 6 · 2 6 ways to have exactly one pair of same-colored opposing vertices.

Case 3: We set colors for vertices 1-6; there are 2 6 ways to do so. We then choose 2 of the remaining vertices to assign as same-colored to the opposing vertex. Half of such arrangements end up with two pairs of the same color. There are ( 6 2 ) · 1 2 · 2 6 = 480 ways to have exactly one pair of same-colored opposing vertices.

Adding up all the cases, we find that the probability is 928 2 1 2 = 29 128 .

## 68 Multinomial Expansion

Company :

## Prompt:

How many terms are there in the expansion of ( x 1 + x 2 + x 3 + x 4 + x 5 + x 6 ) 18 after all like terms have been combined?

## Explanation:

Note that each term of the expansion is going to be in the form x e 1 1 . . . x e 6 6 , where e 1 + · · · + e 6 = 18 and e i ≥ 0 are integers. This is because we choose one of the x i 's from each of the 18 terms of the product, so the exponents of all the x i together must sum to 18 . Therefore, we have that we just want the number of non-negative solutions to e 1 + · · · + e 6 = 18 , with e i ≥ 0 are integers. By stars and bars, this is ( 23 5 ) .