## Explanation:

Theta is maximized (absolutely) at-the-money, in this case, when S = K . Since we buy a put, we will be paying theta and thus have negative theta. If the price increases, we go away from the strike (maximal absolute theta). This means that our theta will decrease absolutely. We pay theta, and thus our new theta will approach 0 . This means that our theta increases.

## 419 Coin Toss Game II

Company :

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob are playing a game where they toss a fair coin. The first person to flip two heads (not necessarily sequentially) wins the game. Alice starts and then gives the coin to Bob and the cycle repeats until one of them has flipped two heads. What is the probability that Alice wins this game?

## Explanation:

There are several states to this situation so we can solve this question using Markov Chains. Let P x,y be the probability Alice wins at the state where Alice has flipped x heads and Bob has flipped y heads and it is Alice's turn. We then arrive at these following equations:

$$\text {drive at these following equations:} \\ P _ { 0 , 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P _ { 0 , 0 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P _ { 1 , 0 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P _ { 0 , 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P _ { 1 , 1 } \\ P _ { 1 , 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P _ { 1 , 0 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P _ { 1 , 1 } \\ P _ { 0 , 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P _ { 0 , 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P _ { 1 , 1 } \\ P _ { 1 , 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot P _ { 1 , 1 } \\ y \text {helds } P _ { 0 , 0 } = \frac { 1 6 } { 2 7 } .$$

Solving these equations yields P 0 , 0 = 16 27 .

## 420 Bakery Boxes

Company : None

## Prompt:

A bakery manager uniformly at random selects an integer (name it k ) between 1 and 4, inclusive. He then chooses from k distinct desert types at his shop to create a gift basket consisting of k items. Find the expected number of ways that the manager can create the gift basket.