## Explanation:

Let B and G represent the event that the absolute last marble in our 1200 -long sequence is blue or green, respectively. Let R be the event in question. By Law of Total Probability,

$$\mathbb { P } [ R ] = \mathbb { P } [ R \, | \, G ] \mathbb { P } [ G ] + \mathbb { P } [ R \, | \, B ] \mathbb { P } [ B ]$$

P [ G ] = 1 2 and P [ B ] = 1 3 by the exchangeability of the draws. Then, for the event to occur conditioned on green being the absolute last marble in the first case, we need blue to be the last among red and blue marbles. This would occur with probability 400 600 = 2 3 , as there are 600 marbles of those colors and 400 are blue.

Similarly, among red and green, the probability the last is green is 600 800 = 3 4 . Therefore,

$$\mathbb { P } [ R ] = \frac { 2 } { 3 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 3 } { 4 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 3 } = \frac { 7 } { 1 2 }$$

## 322 Picture Day

Company : None

## Prompt:

Ten students of distinct heights are lining up for a picture. The photographer requires that the two tallest students stand in the two center positions and that the remaining students line up such that the heights strictly descend outwards. How many ways can the students line up?

## Explanation:

There are two ways for the tallest two students to be arranged. Let us focus on the remaining eight students and concern ourselves with the four vacant positions to the left of the center. These four positions can be filled with any of the combination of the eight students, since each combination has one possible arrangement that follows the height invariant. The remaining four students that are not chosen must go to the other side of the line, of which there is only one arrangement to satisfy the height invariant. Thus, there are a total of ( 8 4 ) possible arrangements of the eight non-center students. In total, because there are two possible arrangements of the two middle students, the total number of ways the students can line up is:

$$\begin{pmatrix} 2 \\ 1 \end{pmatrix} \times \begin{pmatrix} 8 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} = 1 4 0$$

## 323 Arbitrage Detective IV

Company :