## Prompt:

You are in a circle with 100 points labelled 0 -99 clockwise. You start at 1 . At each turn, you move one unit left or right with equal probability. What is the expected time to hit 0 ?

## Explanation:

We will use the fact that for a (non-circular) symmetric random walk starting at 0 with boundaries a and -b , for a, b &gt; 0 being integers, the expected time to hit a boundary is ab . This is a fairly well-known fact and is a good exercise to prove if you have never done so before. Imagine we flattened out the circle into a line. In this case, to hit 0 from 1 , we either need to move 1 unit up or 99 units down (this would get us to 0 by hitting spot 99 and circling back to 0 ). The answer is immediate from this fact. Namely, if we treat 1 as our starting point i.e. 0 , we can treat the boundaries as 1 and -99 , so our answer is just 99 by the lemma above.

## 309 Skater Boy

Company : None

## Prompt:

Michael is taking his remote control skateboard around campus. Assume the front of the Hopkins sign is the origin (0 , 0) , and that movement to the right is positive horizontally, and movement into campus (upwards) is positive vertically. Each second, Michael chooses a uniformly random angle between 0 and 2 π , and then moves his skateboard a distance of 1 foot at that angle from the skateboards previous position. After 16 seconds, what is the expected squared distance Michael's skateboard is away from the Hopkins sign?

## Explanation:

We know that we select an angle uniformly at random and then we move 1 unit in that direction. Thus, we have that after n movements, if θ 1 , . . . , θ n are the angles selected, X = n ∑ i =1 cos( θ i ) and Y = n ∑ i =1 sin( θ i ) , where each of the θ i are IID Unif (0 , 2 π ) random variables. Thus, the expected squared distance from the origin is just

$$D ^ { 2 } = X ^ { 2 } + Y ^ { 2 } = \left ( \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } \cos ( \theta _ { i } ) \right ) ^ { 2 } + \left ( \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } \sin ( \theta _ { i } ) \right ) ^ { 2 }$$

Next, we can expand out each of the summations to get that the above is n ∑ i =1 cos 2 ( θ i ) + ∑ i = j cos( θ i ) cos( θ j ) +

/negationslash n ∑ i =1 sin 2 ( θ i ) + ∑ i = j sin( θ i ) sin( θ j ) . Grouping the terms together nicely, we get that the above is

/negationslash

$$\sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } \left ( \cos ^ { 2 } ( \theta _ { i } ) + \sin ^ { 2 } ( \theta _ { i } ) \right ) + \sum _ { i \neq j } \left ( \cos ( \theta _ { i } ) \cos ( \theta _ { j } ) + \sin ( \theta _ { i } ) \sin ( \theta _ { j } ) \right )$$

/negationslash