If we roll a 6 on the first roll, then we get it in 1 roll, so E [ N | B,R 6 ] = 1 . Otherwise, if i = 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , then E [ N | B,R i ] = 1 + E [ N | B ] , as we used up one roll and need to continue forward. Therefore, the equation we need to solve is

$$\mathbb { E } [ N \ | \ B ] = \frac { 2 } { 3 } \left ( 1 + \mathbb { E } [ N \ | \ B ] \right ) + \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

This is easily solved to yield E [ N | B ] = 3 .

You can instead view this problem as saying that whenever we roll a 5 or 6 , we make it a 6 so that the 6 occurs before the 5 . Therefore, the probability of rolling a 5 or 6 on each trial is 1 / 3 , meaning that N | B ∼ Geom (1 / 3) , which has mean 3 . This agrees with the answer above.

## 763 Cyclic 4

Company : WorldQuant

## Prompt:

What is the smallest positive integer that ends with the digit 4 such that moving its last digit to the first position (i.e. 1234 =&gt; 4123) multiplies the original integer by exactly 4 ?

## Explanation:

Clearly the integer isn't 4 , so it has at least 2 digits. Suppose it has exactly 2 digits. Then it is in the form a 4 for some integer a . We would want 4(10 a +4) = 40 + a , as 40 + a is the representation of 4 a . This would mean that 39 a = 24 which is not possible.

Note here that the first digit of our integer must be 1 , as when multiplied by 4 , the first digit must now be 4 . Therefore, for three digits, we can see that the form is 1 a 4 for an integer a . We would need to have that 4(104 + a ) = 410 + a , so 3 a = -6 . This is not possible, as our integer must be non-negative.

Next, suppose it has 4 digits. Therefore, it is in the form 1 ab 4 . We would need to satisfy 4(1004+100 a + 10 b ) = 4100 + 10 a + b , which would imply that 390 a +39 b = 84 . This is not possible, as 3984 .

We are starting to see a pattern here. The integer on the RHS with n non-fixed digits is 4 · 10 n +10 n -1 , whereas the integer on the LHS is 4 · 10 n + 16 . Therefore, we need to find the smallest n such that their difference, which is 10 n -1 -16 , is divisible by 39 . The terms on the LHS, before division, are all 39 · 10 k for 0 ≤ k ≤ n -1 . Try equating this representation to the example above.