## 1040 Points on a Circle III

Company : None

## Prompt:

There are 8 points on a circle. You draw all possible chords that can be formed by connecting pairs each pair of points. Then, you randomly selects 4 chords. What is the probability that the 4 chords form a convex quadrilateral?

## Explanation:

As there are 8 points on the circle, there are ( 8 2 ) = 28 different chords on the circle. This is because each pair of points can have a chord drawn between them. Therefore, there are ( 28 4 ) different subsets of the chords that could be selected.

Additionally, each set of 4 points corresponds to exactly one quadrilateral. This is because each set of 4 points can have exactly 1 quadrilateral where the chords connect between those 4 points specifically. Therefore, there are ( 8 4 ) ways to pick 4 points. This means our probability is

$$\frac { \binom { 8 } { 4 } } { \binom { 2 8 } { 4 } } = \frac { 2 } { 5 8 5 }$$

## 1041 Cheese Lover I

Company :

## Prompt:

Jon loves cheese. He decides to make 100 blocks of cheese. The distribution of the weight (in grams) of each block he makes follows IID Exp ( 1 250 ) distribution. Let W i denote the weight of the i th block of cheese, and T 100 represent the total weight of the 100 blocks of cheese. Using Markov's Inequality, what is an upper bound on P [ T 100 &gt; 26000] ?

## Explanation:

Markov's Inequality states that P [ T 100 &gt; 26000] ≤ E [ T 100 ] 26000 , as it is already in the form of Markov's Inequality. By linearity of expectation (or recognition), you can find that E [ T 100 ] = 100 E [ W 1 ] = 100 · 250 = 25000 , so we get the upper bound on the probability as 25 26 .