## Prompt:

You and your opponent flip a coin. If the first player gets heads, the second player pays him $30 . If he flips tails, the coin goes to the second player. If the second player flips heads, he wins $30 from the first player. If the second player also gets tails, the process repeats. What is the maximum amount (in dollars) you would pay for the right to go first?

## Explanation:

Let x be the expected value of the game if you go first. With probability 1 2 , you will receive $30 . With probability 1 4 (you land tails and your opponent lands heads), you will lose $30 . Then, with probability 1 4 , the game resets and your expected gain is x . This yields the equation

$$x = 0 . 5 ( 3 0 ) + 0 . 2 5 ( - 3 0 ) + 0 . 2 5 ( x )$$

When solved, this yields x = 10 , so the right is worth at most $10 .

## 171 Clock Angle I

Company : Virtu Financial, Jane Street, Wolverine Trading, Blackedge Capital

## Prompt:

Find the angle (in degrees) between the minutes and hours hands at 9 : 45 PM on a standard clock.

## Explanation:

At 9:45 PM, we know the minutes hand is at the 9 . The hours hand is 3 4 of the way between the 9 and the 10 , as 3 4 of an hour has elapsed. Therefore, the angle between them is just 3 4 of the angular distance from 9 to 10 on the clock. Namely, as there are 12 equally spaced numerical values and the total degrees of a circle is 360 , there are 30 degrees between each numerical value. Therefore, our answer is 3 4 · 30 = 22 . 5 .

## 172 Greedy Bob

Company : None

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob are playing a game. Alice spins a spinner and wins X dollars, with mean 12 and variance 2. Bob flips a coin, and if the coin lands on heads, then Bob takes from Alice whatever she won, else Bob wins nothing. What is Var ( Y ) , where Y denotes the amount Bob wins?