## Prompt:

Alan is sitting at

(0

,

0)

and Barbara is sitting at

(4

,

4)

. Each minute, Alan moves up or to the right one unit with equal probability, unless he is on the border of the

4

4

grid centered at

(2

,

2)

, in which case he moves in the only possible direction that keeps him within range. Barbara behaves similarly, but moves down or to

×

the left instead. What is the probability that the two meet before they reach the opposite corner?

## Explanation:

Observe that the sum of Alan's coordinates increases by this sum starts at

8

each minute, and Barbara's decreases by for Barbara and

must do so on the diagonal

y

= 4

0

.

x

1

for Alan, if they meet at all, they must meet after

During the first

4

4

1

. Since minutes, and they

minutes, both players are allowed to move in their originally permitted directions unconstrained, so there are

diagonal and therefore

2

8

= 256

-

2

4

equally likely ways for each player to reach the ways for both players. There exists a bijection between the number of ways

to travel from one corner to the other and the number of viable paths for Alan and Barbara to meet, as any distinct example of one can be viewed uniquely as an example of the other.

for Alan and Barbara to meet of the original

## 717 Die To Number

Company : None

## Prompt:

A fair die is tossed 16 times, and the values are recorded in the order they appear.

treated as individual digits and appended together.

divisible by 8?

## Explanation:

A number is divisible by 8 if its last 3 digits are divisible by 8.

Hence, we have

(

8

4

)

= 70

ways

The values are then

What is the probability that the resulting number is

We can therefore ignore the first 13 rolls.

The last digit must be even, so the final roll must produce either

3-digit combinations that are divisible by

8

.

Ends in 2

: 112 , 152 , 232 , 312 , 352 , 432 , 512 , 552 , 632

Ends in 4

: 144 , 224 , 264 , 344 , 424 , 464 , 544 , 624 , 664

Ends in 6

: 136 , 216 , 256 , 336 , 416 , 456 , 536 , 616 , 656

We conclude that our probability is 27 6 3 = 1 8 .

## 718 Exponential + Uniform

Company :

2

,

4

,

or

6

.

At this point, we can just list all

256

, so the probability is

70

256

.