## Explanation:

We know that by LOTUS, E [ X ] α ∞ ∑ k =1 k · 1 k 2 = ∞ ∑ k =1 1 k = ∞ . Thus, X and Y do not have finite means, so the expression E [ XY ] -E [ X ] E [ Y ] can't be explicitly computed, as you obtain ∞-∞ , which is indeterminate. Therefore, the answer is 12345 .

## 856 Football Bets

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Connor and Calvin bet $10 each on opposing outcomes of a football game. During the match, Connor raises the bet to $20 . If Calvin doesn't match Connor's bet, he automatically loses what he has bet thus far. Let p be the probability that Calvin's team will win the game when Connor raises. Find the smallest value of p so that Calvin should accept Connor's bet.

## Explanation:

We know that if Calvin doesn't accept the bet, his expected value is -10 , as he loses his initial bet. If Calvin accepts the bet, then with probability p he wins 20 and with probability 1 -p he loses 20 . Therefore, we need to find the smallest p such that 20 p -20(1 -p ) ≥ -10 . Solving this equation for p yields p ≥ 1 4 , so p = 1 4 is the smallest value where he should accept.

## 857 Cat Dog Line

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

You're walking down an infinite street, and you notice that six out of every seven cats on a sidewalk are followed by a dog, while one out of every four dogs is followed by a cat. What proportion of animals on the sidewalk are dogs?

## Explanation:

Let c and d , respectively, be the proportion of cats and dogs on the sidewalk. We know c + d = 1 . Let's find d in terms of c . Note that of all the cats, 6 7 are followed by a dog. Then, of those dogs, 3 4 of them are followed by another dog. Of those dogs, 3 4 are followed by another dog, etc. Therefore, we can write

$$d = \frac { 6 } { 7 } c + \frac { 6 } { 7 } \cdot \frac { 3 } { 4 } c + \frac { 6 } { 7 } \cdot \left ( \frac { 3 } { 4 } \right ) ^ { 2 } c + \cdots = \frac { 6 c } { 7 } \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { \infty } \left ( \frac { 3 } { 4 } \right ) ^ { k } = \frac { 2 4 c } { 7 }$$