## Prompt:

A 6 -sided die with values 1 -6 is weighed such that the probability of rolling the values 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , and 6 are the same whether we roll this die once or if we roll the die twice and take the sum of the two outcomes. Let p 1 be the probability that the value 1 is obtained on this die. p 1 is the solitary positive solution to the polynomial equation for some real constants c 1 , . . . , c 6 . Find 6 ∑ k =1 c k .

## Explanation:

Let p i be the probability of rolling i on this die. We know that to get sum of 2 , we must roll 1 twice. Therefore, we must have that p 2 = p 2 1 . Similarly, to get a sum of 3 , we must roll a 1 and a 2 in some order, so p 3 = 2 p 1 p 2 . To get a sum of 4 , we either roll 1 and 3 in some order or roll 2 consecutive 2 s. Therefore, p 4 = 2 p 1 p 3 + p 2 2 . To get a sum of 5 , we must either roll a 1 and a 4 OR a 2 and a 3 in some order. Therefore, p 5 = 2 p 1 p 4 +2 p 2 p 3 . Lastly, to get a sum of 6 , we must obtain either 2 consecutive 3 s, a 2 and a 4 in some order, or a 1 and a 5 in some order. Therefore, p 6 = p 2 3 +2 p 2 p 4 +2 p 1 p 5 .

Substituting, as p 2 = p 2 1 , p 3 = 2 p 3 1 . Continuing this pattern of substitution, p 4 = 5 p 4 1 , p 5 = 14 p 5 1 , and p 6 = 42 p 6 1 . We also know that p 1 + · · · + p 6 = 1 , as this accounts for all possible outcomes. Therefore, the equation p 1 satisfies is

$$4 2 p _ { 1 } ^ { 6 } + 1 4 p _ { 1 } ^ { 5 } + 5 p _ { 1 } ^ { 4 } + 2 p _ { 1 } ^ { 3 } + p _ { 1 } ^ { 2 } + p _ { 1 } = 1$$

Therefore, we have that 6 ∑ k =1 c k = 65 .

## 470 Taxman

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

We start with the numbers 1 -10 on a board. You pick a number. The taxman then takes all the numbers that divide it evenly. We do this until there are no numbers left. However, you can only pick numbers that have at least one factor that hasn't been taken yet. If there are any unclaimed numbers at the end, the taxman takes them. Your score is the total of the numbers that you take. Following optimal strategy, what is your max possible score?

$$\sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 6 } c _ { k } p _ { 1 } ^ { k } = 1$$