$$T h e r e f o r e , \, a = 1 2 \, \text { and } q = \frac { 1 1 } { 8 } , \, \text {so } a q = \frac { 3 3 } { 2 } .$$

## 896 Dice Strike Price

Company : None

## Prompt:

A fair 12 -sided die has the values 1 , 3 , . . . , 23 on it. What is the fair price of an option with strike price 12 , where you are paid out the numerical value in dollars of the resultant face of the die upon rolling it?

## Explanation:

We know that with probability 1 2 , we are lower than 12 in value, so we don't exercise the option. Otherwise, we are larger than 12 , and each with probability 1 12 , we profit 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 11 . This is because we subtract 12 from each of the values larger than 12 . Therefore, our fair price is

$$\frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot 0 + \frac { 1 + 3 + 5 + 7 + 9 + 1 1 } { 1 2 } = 3$$

## 897 Optimal Marbles II

Company :

## Prompt:

Two players, say A and B , play the following game: Both players have 100 marbles and may put anywhere between 1 and 100 marbles in the box each. This decision is not revealed to the other player. Then, they draw 1 marble. If the marble belongs to A , then assuming that A put a marbles in the box, A is paid 100 -a monetary units from player B . Similarly if the marble belongs to B , then assuming B put b marbles in the box, B is paid 100 -b monetary units from player A . Assume both players play optimally. How many marbles should player A select?

## Explanation:

Similar to Optimal Marbles I, this game is symmetric for the two players, so their optimal strategy will be the same. This point will be important later. One main difference is that this is a zero-sum game, unlike Optimal Marbles I. The function we have to optimize will be significantly different.

Let A ( a, b ) be the expected profit/loss of player A when A puts in a marbles and B puts in b marbles. Then

$$A ( a , b ) = \frac { a } { a + b } \cdot ( 1 0 0 - b ) - \frac { b } { a + b } \cdot ( 1 0 0 - b )$$