## Prompt:

A tournament consistent of 32 teams plays in a round-robin style tournament. This means that every single team plays every other team exactly one time. Suppose that every team is equally skilled so that every team is equally likely to beat any other team in a given match. Each team keeps track of how many wins they have. Find the probability that every team has won a distinct number of games at the end of the tournament. The answer will be in the form a ! 2 b for integers a and b , where b is maximal. Find a + b .

## Explanation:

There are a total of ( 32 2 ) = 496 games played in this tournament, meaning that there are 2 496 total outcomes of the tournament. We want the number of outcomes where each team wins a distinct amount of games. However, this fixes the tournament outcome completely, as each team must have a distinct integer 0 , 1 , . . . , 31 wins, and note that 0 + 1 + · · · +31 = 31 · 32 2 = 496 . Therefore, we have already fixed the outcomes of the tournament, so we really just need to assign labels to which team obtains which amount of wins. There are 32! ways to do this, so our answer is 32! 2 496 . This means a = 32 , b = 496 , so a + b = 528 .

## 497 Partial Derivatives

Company :

## Prompt:

Let f : R 10 → R , where f = f ( x 1 , . . . , x 10 ) is a smooth function (i.e. partial derivatives exist of all orders). How many 5 th order partial derivatives does f have? For example, ∂ f ∂ x 5 1 and ∂ f ∂ x 2 1 ∂ x 2 2 ∂ x 6 are both 5 th order partial derivatives.

## Explanation:

The trick here is to realize that only the counts matter and not the order of the derivatives. This implies we should take a stars and bars approach. Let n i be the order of partial derivative given to x i , where 1 ≤ i ≤ 10 . This means that counting 5 th order partial derivatives is equivalent to counting the number of non-negative integer solutions to n 1 + · · · + n 10 = 5 , as each unique solution to this corresponds to the partial derivative ∂ f ∂ x n 1 1 . . . ∂ x n 10 10 . There are ( 14 9 ) = 2002 non-negative integer solutions to the this equation by stars and bars.

## 498 Spherical Coodinates

Company : Five Rings, Citadel

## Prompt:

A random point ( X 1 , X 2 , . . . , X 10 ) is uniformly at random selected from the 10 -ball that has radius 12 centered at the origin. Find the variance of X 1 , the first coordinate.