## 984 Coin Pair I

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Four fair coins appear in front of you. You flip all four at once and observe the outcomes of the coins. After seeing the outcomes, you may turn any pair of coins over. You may not flip over a single coin without flipping over another. You can iterate this process as many times as you would like. Assuming optimal play, find the expected number of heads that appear.

## Explanation:

We can flip over any pair of coins after flipping. Clearly, if we obtain 4 heads from the start, we wouldn't turn over any. If we obtain no heads, we can turn over two pairs of 2 coins to get all heads. Similarly, we can do this if we obtain 2 tails. If we obtain 3 heads, we have no benefit by turning over any coins. If we obtain 1 heads, we turn over a pair of tails and end with 3 heads. The probability we end with an even number of heads from the 4 fl ips is 1 + 6 + 1 16 = 1 2 , as there are ( 4 2 ) = 6 ways to obtain 2 heads and 2 tails.

Therefore, the probability we end with either 3 or 4 heads from the 4 fl ips is 1 2 . The answer is just 4 + 3 2 = 7 2 .

## 985 Archery Accuracy

Company : Citadel, Belvedere Trading

## Prompt:

An archer is shooting at a dartboard. If she has a 3 4 chance of hitting any given shot, find the probability that she hits at least one of her next three shots.

## Explanation:

The complementary event is that she misses all three of her shots. This occurs with probability 1 4 per shot, so the probability she misses all of the next three shots is 1 4 3 = 1 64 . Thus, the probability she makes at least one of the next three shots is 1 -1 64 = 63 64 .

## 986 Contracts and Options IV

Company : Old Mission, SIG