## Prompt:

We run an OLS regression and observe that SSE = 120 and SSR = 80 . What is R 2 for this regression?

## Explanation:

$$\text {Note that SSR + SSE = SST, so SST = 2 0 0 .  \text { Therefore, } R ^ { 2 } = 1 - \frac { S S E } { S S T } = 1 - \frac { 1 2 0 } { 2 0 0 } = \frac { 2 } { 5 } .$$

## 115 Prime Sum

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Two distinct prime integers between 1 and 20 , inclusive, are selected uniformly at random. Find the probability their sum is even.

## Explanation:

The prime integers at most 20 are 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 11 , 13 , 17 , and 19 , which yields 8 total integers. There are 8 · 7 = 56 ways to pick 2 integers ordered for the sum. Our sum is even exactly when we don't select 2 . Therefore, there are 7 · 6 = 42 ways to pick two prime integers that aren't 2 . Therefore, our probability is

$$\frac { 4 2 } { 5 6 } = \frac { 3 } { 4 }$$

## 116 Always Profit II

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

QuantGuide stock will either double its value or go down 50% by tomorrow. You can also bet whether the stock goes up or down with your friend at 1 : 1 payout. Let A and B be the lowest round bet (can only bet whole dollars) amount you long/short the stock and bet on the stock going up/down with your friend respectively. Assume that if you are betting, you want to make the same amount profit no matter the outcome of the stockâs movement tomorrow (bank balance will be the same no matter the outcome). How much do you profit from betting A and B? If you canât guarantee profit, enter 0 .

## Explanation:

Something to notice about this situation is that being long on the stock is better than betting the stock goes up against your friend because in the case the stock goes down, youâll still retain 50% of your investment in the stock. Thus we should look to go long on the stock and bet the stock goes down against your friend. The profit (including returned bets) equations are as follows: