## Explanation:

Label the switches 1, 2, 3, and 4. Because there are four possible answers, you need at least two binary choices to differentiate between the results, one of which is entering the room to see if the light is on or off. The second will be if the bulb is warm. Our strategy will be to turn on switches 1 and 3 for 20 minutes, then turn off switch 3 and turn on switch 2. Thus, there are four possibilities from the two binary choices based on the characteristics of the bulb when we go into the room once:

On and warm ⇒ 1

On and cold ⇒ 2

Off and warm ⇒ 3

Off and cold ⇒ 4

Thus, we only need to enter the room once.

## 318 Counting Odds

Company : None

## Prompt:

How many odd numbers from 1 to 2023, inclusive, are divisible by 3?

## Explanation:

The sequence of numbers within our range that are divisible by three are 3 , 6 , ..., 2022 . Every other term in this sequence will be even since adding an odd number to x fl ips whether or not it is odd or even. Thus, the new sequence in consideration is 3 , 9 , ..., 2019 . Note that the difference between each term is six, which is intuitive since we are skipping every other multiple of three. Adding 3 to each term, the sequence becomes 6 , 12 , ..., 2022 . Dividing each term by 6, the sequence becomes 1 , 2 , ..., 337 . Hence, there are 337 odd numbers from 1 to 2023.

## 319 Balanced Beans II

Company : SIG, Chicago Trading Company, Blackedge Capital, Citadel

## Prompt:

There are 12 beans; one weighs slightly heavier or lighter than the others. What is the minimum number of times a balance scale must be used to guarantee the determination of the abnormal bean?