We now need to write v in terms of our eigenvector basis. However, it is fairly clear to see that v = e 1 +2 e 5 . By the fact that e 1 and e 5 are eigenvalues of A , we have that

$$A ^ { 1 0 } v = A ^ { 1 0 } ( e _ { 1 } + 2 e _ { 5 } ) = A ^ { 1 0 } e _ { 1 } + 2 A ^ { 1 0 } e _ { 5 } = 1 ^ { 1 0 } \cdot e _ { 1 } + 2 \cdot 5 ^ { 1 0 } e _ { 5 } = \begin{bmatrix} 2 \cdot 5 ^ { 1 0 } + 1 \\ 4 \cdot 5 ^ { 1 0 } - 2 \end{bmatrix}$$

This means our answer is 5 · 10 + 1 + 4 + 2 + 2 = 59 .

## 141 Nearest Circular Neighbor

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that you select 20 IID points on the circumference of the unit circle, say X 1 , . . . , X 20 . Find the expected arc length (in degrees) between X 1 and the point nearest to it.

## Explanation:

Fix the location of X 1 . Let D be the length of the arc (in radians) between X 1 and the nearest point. We will convert to degrees at the end. We compute E [ D ] = ∫ π 0 P [ D ≥ x ] dx . The maximal distance is π since we look in both directions. The event { D ≥ x } means that the other 19 points lie outside a region of x radians in either direction. This means that there are 2( π -x ) radians that are valid for the other n -1 points to lie in. Therefore, the probability all of the other 19 points lie outside this region is

$$\left ( \frac { 2 ( \pi - x ) } { 2 \pi } \right ) ^ { 1 9 } = \left ( 1 - \frac { x } { \pi } \right ) ^ { 1 9 }$$

Therefore, our expected distance is E [ D ] = ∫ π 0 ( 1 -x π ) 19 dx = π ∫ 1 0 (1 -u ) 19 du = π 20 Therefore, this is 180 π = 9 degrees.

$$\frac { 1 8 0 } { \pi } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 0 } =$$

## 142 Solo or Pair

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You are given the option between two games involving fair standard 6 -sided dice. Which one gives you a higher probability of winning? Answer 1 for the first game, 2 for the second game, or 3 if both give you equal probability of winning.