Here, n = 40 , which is large enough for us to let µ sample = 122 be a point estimator of µ that is approximately normally distributed. We can then define our test statistic as

$$Z = \frac { \mu _ { s a m p l e } - \mu } { \sigma / \sqrt { 4 0 } }$$

Under the null hypothesis, we expect Z ∼ N (0 , 1) . We reject H 0 if Z &lt; z 0 . 01 = -2 . 326 .

$$Z = \frac { \sqrt { 4 0 } ( 1 2 2 - 1 3 2 ) } { 2 5 }$$

$$2 5$$

$$\approx - 2 . 5 3 < - 2 . 3 2 6$$

We may reject the null hypothesis, which means we can accuse QuantHomies of paying wages that are below the industry standard. We should respond with 1 .

## 213 Miscalculated Fibonacci

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that you are trying to calculate the terms in the Fibonacci sequence. You calculate the values of F 0 , F 1 , . . . , F 99 correctly. However, you say that the value of F 100 is G 100 = 1 + F 100 . Assuming you carry over this error into your subsequent calculations of terms of F 101 , . . . , F 110 , let G 110 be the value that you calculate for F 110 . Find G 110 -F 110 .

## Explanation:

You would calculate that G 101 = G 100 + F 99 = 1 + ( F 100 + F 99 ) = 1 + F 101 . Then, you would calculate that G 102 = G 101 + G 100 = 2 + ( F 101 + F 100 ) = 2 + F 102 . More generally, we see that the error is going to accumulate just like the Fibonacci sequence itself! This is because the error in each of the two previous values is summed up. In particular, the error terms start as 1 and 1 rather than 0 and 1 . Therefore, we have that the error term is F n +1 . Plugging in n = 10 , as we are calculating 10 terms out above 100 , we get that our error is going to be F 11 = 89 .

## 214 Make Your Martingale III

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , · · · ∼ Exp ( λ ) IID. Define the process { M n } n ≥ 0 by M 0 = 1 and M n = M n -1 · 1 2 e λ 2 X n with the natural filtration F n = σ ( X 1 , . . . , X n ) . If 0 &lt; a &lt; p &lt; b for some real values a and b , then { M p n } n ≥ 0 is a sub-martingale. Find a + b .