a Geom ( 1 2000 ) random variable. Lastly, we know the last part is just 1 200 from our prior calculations, so E 5 [ N ] = 10 .

## 960 Rolls in a Row II

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

How many rolls of a fair 6 -sided die must be rolled on average to get 5 and 6 in a row in that order?

## Explanation:

We can use Markov Chains for this problem. Let E 0 be the expectation state of not having the starting 5 . Let E 1 be the expectation state of having the 5 ). Finally, let E 2 be the expectation state of having 5 and 6 in a row (our goal). Then our equations become:

$$E _ { 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 6 } ( E _ { 1 } + 1 ) + \frac { 5 } { 6 } ( E _ { 0 } + 1 ) = \frac { 1 } { 6 } E _ { 1 } + \frac { 5 } { 6 } E _ { 0 } + 1 \\ E _ { 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 6 } ( E _ { 2 } + 1 ) + \frac { 1 } { 6 } ( E _ { 1 } + 1 ) + \frac { 2 } { 3 } ( E _ { 0 } + 1 ) = \frac { 1 } { 6 } E _ { 2 } + \frac { 5 } { 6 } E _ { 0 } + 1 \\ E _ { 2 } = 0$$

Solving these equations, we get E 0 = 36 . Thus it takes 36 rolls on average to roll a 5 and 6 in a row.

## 961 Fish Slice

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

Noelle is preparing a tuna fish of length L in anticipation of dinner. She selects 2 cutting points uniformly at random and independently along the length of the fish so that the cutting points are on opposite sides of the midpoint of the fish. Find the probability that the distance between the two points Noelle selects is greater than L 3 .

## Explanation:

Let X be the random variable representing the location of the first cutting point and Y be the random variable representing the location of the second cutting point. Since X and Y are equally likely to be on either side of the midpoint due to symmetry, we are going to consider the case of X being left of the midpoint and Y to the right. Since X is to the left, X ∼ Unif [0 , L 2 ] . Similarly, Y ∼ Unif [ L 2 , L ] . We want to find P [ | X -Y | ≥ L 3 ] . Since the joint PDF is uniform over the indicator region, we can just take ratios of areas to