## Prompt:

A chess board consists of 2 inch by 2 inch squares. We toss a coin (diameter of 1 inch) that lands somewhere on the board randomly. What is the probability that the coin is completely within one of the 2 inch by 2 inch squares (not on more than 1 square)?

## Explanation:

Because of the layout and symmetry of squares, we only need to consider if the coin fits in a 2 inch by 2 inch square. If it doesnât, we know that it overlaps onto a neighboring square and thus doesnât fit the criteria. In order to find the probability that a coin is fully within a square, we can calculate the area that the center of the coin can land in and divide it by the total area of a square. Given the radius of the coin is 0 . 5 inches, it canât be any closer than 0 . 5 inches to any edge of the square. This gives a total area that the center can land in of (2 -0 . 5 -0 . 5) 2 = 1 square inch. The total area of the square (and thus total area that the center of the coin can land in) is 2 2 = 4 square inches. This gives us the answer of 1 4 = 0 . 25 .

## 24 Shattering Orbs

Company : Virtu Financial

## Prompt:

$$= \frac { 1 } { n } \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { n - 1 } ( 1 + a _ { k } ) = 1 + \frac { 1 } { n } \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { n - 1 } a _ { k } .$$

7

orbs are labeled 1 -7 and are linked linearly in a vertical stack from the ceiling with orb 1 being a part of the ceiling and orb 7 being closest to the floor. Each orb is attached to adjacent orbs by a chain link. At each time step, one of the remaining links is going to be uniformly at random selected and cut. As a result, all the orbs below that link will fall and shatter. What is the expected number of cuts needed until orb 1 is the only remaining orb?

## Explanation:

We are going to solve this for the general case of when there are n links. Let a n be the expected number of cuts needed with n links. We want to find a recurrence relation for a n . To do this, let's consider what happens after the first cut. If we cut at link k , 1 ≤ k ≤ n , where link 1 connects orbs 1 and 2 , then this means we have k -1 links above it still standing. Thus, we have added 1 to our count and want to now find the same expectation but starting from k -1 links instead of n . Mathematically, this means that a n = 1 n n ∑ k =1 (1 + a k -1 ) , as with probability 1 n , we cut each given link on the first step. This is just Law of Total Expectation above, where we have conditioned on the position of the first cut. We index shift this sum by 1 to get a n = 1 n n -1 (1 + a k ) = 1 + 1 n n -1 a k .