## Prompt:

Gabe has 2 loaves of bread of lengths 5 and 8. He has no control of where he cuts the length 8 bread piece, so he cuts it at a uniformly random position along its length. What is the probability that the loaf of length 5 and the two resulting pieces of bread from the cut form a triangle?

## Explanation:

Let X be the distance from the left endpoint that Gabe cuts the piece of bread. Then X ∼ Unif (0 , 8) by definition. The three resultant pieces are then of lengths 5 , X, and 8 -X . We can use the condition for triangles be valid i.e. the sum of any 2 sides is longer than the remaining side to determine the valid values of X that make this a triangle.

The three inequalities say that 5 &lt; X +(8 -X ) = 8 , which is useless. Then, X &lt; 5+(8 -X ) , so X &lt; 13 2 is our first condition. In addition 8 -X &lt; 5 + X , so that X &gt; 3 2 is our second condition. Therefore, finding a valid triangle is equivalent to finding P [ 3 2 &lt; X &lt; 13 2 ] , which is simply just 5 8 by realizing this interval is length 5 out of a total length 8 interval.

## 707 Gamma Review I

Company :

## Prompt:

$$\text {Prompt} \colon \quad \\ \text {Compute } \frac { \Gamma \left ( \frac { 9 } { 4 } \right ) } { \Gamma \left ( \frac { 1 } { 4 } \right ) } .$$

## Explanation:

Using the reduction property Γ ( a +1) = a Γ ( a ) , we note that Γ ( 9 4 ) = 5 4 · Γ ( 5 4 ) = 5 4 · 1 4 · Γ ( 1 4 ) . Therefore, our answer is 5 16 .

## 708 Mile Rate

Company :

## Prompt:

A racecar driver drives a one mile track at a constant rate of 30 miles per hour on his first lap. Let x be the constant speed of the racecar driver on the second lap. What value of x should the racecar driver drive at