## 45 4 Die Sum

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

Calculate the probability that when we roll 4 fair 6 -sided dice, the sum of their upfaces is 20.

## Explanation:

Clearly there are

6

4

= 1296

total outcomes of the 4 dice rolls.

We need to divide this up into all of the permutations that sum to 20, as well as count all of their arrangements.

are

The permutations that sum to 20

$$6 , 6 , 6 , 2 ; 6 , 6 , 5 , 3 ; 6 , 6 , 4 , 4 ; 6 , 5 , 5 , 4 ; 5 , 5 , 5 , 5$$

by brute force. Note that we now need to count all of the arrangements for each combination, as we created our sample space so that it include all 4-tuples. For 6 , 6 , 6 , 2 , there are 4 permutations corresponding to where the 2 is put. For 6 , 6 , 5 , 3 , there are 12 permutations corresponding to just dividing 4! (total permutations) by 2! for the two sixes. By the same idea, 6 , 6 , 4 , 4 has 6 permutations, 6 , 5 , 5 , 4 has 12 permutations, and 5 , 5 , 5 , 5 has 1 permutation. Adding all of these up, we get 35 possible permutations that add to 20 . Therefore, the probability is 35 1296 .

## 46 Common Ball Draw

Company :

## Prompt:

people play a game as follows:

Each of the replacement from an urn that contains

n

$$k \geq 2$$

k

people go up one-at-a-time to draw balls labelled

1

n

1

r

n

balls without

. Once a given person has drawn their note them, and then put them back in the urn for the next player to draw. Let

that all

k

-

p

≤

(

k, n, r

)

≤

r

balls, they be the probability

of the people draw at least one ball in common under the specifications above.

Round your answer to three decimal places.

## Explanation:

Let A i be the event that ball i , 1 ≤ i ≤ r , is selected in common between all k people. We want P [ r ⋃ i =1 A i ] . The events A i are not mutually exclusive, so we need to use inclusion-exclusion here to calculate this probability. As all of the balls are exchangeable, all individual probabilities and intersection probabilities are the same regardless of which intersection we consider. Therefore, by the inclusion-exclusion formula, we have

Find

p

(4

,

17

,

5)

.