## Prompt:

QuantGuide has a 20% chance of being acquired between Wednesday evening and Thursday morning. One share of its stock is worth $30 on Wednesday. If QuantGuide is acquired, then there is a 50% chance that one share of its stock is worth $50 and a 50% chance that one share of its stock is worth $ x . Otherwise, there is a 60% chance that one share of its stock is worth $0 and a 40% chance that one share of its stock is worth $10 . A fair contract that awards the buyer the right but not the obligation to buy the stock at $40 on Thursday is worth $15 . Compute x .

## Explanation:

We are interested in the expected gain after purchasing the contract. Specifically, if we purchase the contract, then we will only exercise our right to buy the stock at $40 on Thursday if the value of the stock is greater than $40 . Let G denote the gain after purchasing the contract.

$$\mathbb { E } [ G ] = - 1 5 + 0 . 2 \cdot 0 . 5 \cdot ( 5 0 - 4 0 ) + 0 . 2 \cdot 0 . 5 \cdot ( x - 4 0 )$$

A fair price for the contract would assume E [ G ] = 0 .

$$1 5 & = 1 + 0 . 1 x - 4 \\ 1 8 & = 0 . 1 x \\ x & = 1 8 0 .$$

## 824 Basketball Practice

Company :

## Prompt:

Frank is shooting free throws. He makes his first free throw and misses his second free throw. For n ≥ 3 , the probability of making the n th free throw is equal to the proportion of free throws he made during his first n -1 attempts. What is the probability that Frank makes exactly 50 free throws in 100 attempts?

## Explanation:

Consider n = 3 . There are two possible outcomes: Frank makes 2 total free throws, or Frank makes 1 total free throw. Each occurs with probability 1 2 . Next, consider n = 4 . If Frank makes 3 total free throws, then he must have made every free throw beginning with n = 3 . This occurs with probability 1 2 · 2 3 = 1 3 . If Frank makes 2 total free throws, then he either misses the 3rd free thrown or the 4th free throw, which occurs with probability 1 2 · 1 3 + 1 2 · 1 3 = 1 3 . If Frank makes 1 total free throw, then he must have missed both the 3rd and 4th free throws, which occurs with probability 1 2 · 2 3 = 1 3 . We are already starting to see a pattern here, but we'll keep going for n = 5 just to confirm our suspicions. If Frank makes 4 total free throws, then he must have made every free throw beginning with n = 3 , which occurs with probability 1 2 · 2 3 · 3 4 = 1 4 . If Frank makes 3 total free throws, then he misses on either the 3rd, 4th, or 5th attempt, which occurs with