1

$$\text {likely to be the smallest by exchangeability, the numerator is just \frac { 1 } { 3 } .  Therefore, the probability in question} \\ \text {is just } \frac { \frac { 1 } { 3 } } { \frac { 1 } { 2 } } = \frac { 2 } { 3 } .$$

## 193 Birthday Guessing

Company : None

## Prompt:

A group of colleagues know that their manager Alice's birthday is one of the following 10 dates:

March 4, March 5, March 8June 4, June 7September 1, September 5December 1, December 2, December 8

Alice only told Bob the month of her birthday and Charlie the day. After that, Bob first said, "I know that neither I nor Charlie knows Alice's birthday." After hearing this, Charlie replies, "I didn't know Alice's birthday, but now I do!" Bob smiles gently, and comments, "Now I do, as well!" What is Alice's birthday (as an integer in the format mmdd, including any leading zeros)?

## Explanation:

Let D ∈ { 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 } be the day of the month of Alice's birthday. If Alice's birthday is on a unique day, then Charlie will know Alice's birthday immediately. Considering that Bob is sure that Charlie does not know Alice's birthday, you must infer that the day Charlie was told is not 2 or 7, and thus the month is not June or December. Now Charlie knows that the month must be either March or September. He immediately figures out Alice's birthday, which means that the day must be unique in the March and September set of dates. In other words, Alice's birthday cannot be March 5 or September 5, but instead be one of March 4, March 8, or September 1. Among these three possibilities, March 4 and March 8 have the same month. If the month Bob had was March, then he would not have been able to figure out Alice's birthday. Thus, Alice's birthday must be September 1.

## 194 Put Fly I

Company :

## Prompt:

We have the underlying S with initial price S 0 = 15 . We have access to the following calls. The calls are given in the format of ( Strike K, Price C 0 )

$$( 1 0 , 8 . 1 )$$

(15 , 4 . 2)

$$( 2 0 , 1 . 4 )$$