N ∼ Geom ( 1 6 ) , as N is a waiting time to see the value 6 . Combining all of this,

$$\mathbb { E } [ T ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ \frac { N - 1 } { 5 } \right ] = \frac { \mathbb { E } [ N ] - 1 } { 5 } = 1$$

## 216 Snowman Surface

Company :

## Prompt:

A snowman is formed by placing three spherical snowballs of radii 8 , 11 , and 14 inches on top of one another. Assume that every point on the surface of each snowball is visible. A uniformly random point is selected on the surface of the snowman. Find the probability that this point is at most 39 inches above the ground.

## Explanation:

The total surface area of the snowman is 4 π (8 2 +11 2 +14 2 ) = 1524 π . Half of the 11 inch sphere and all of the 14 inch sphere are at most 39 inches off the ground. This comes from the fact that the diameter is 28 inches for the 14 inch snowball, and then we add 11 inches as the radius of the 11 inch snowball. The surface area of the portion closer to the ground is 4 π · 14 2 +2 π · 11 2 = 1026 π . Therefore, the answer in question is 1026 π 1524 π = 171 254 .

## 217 Three Repeat II

Company : Old Mission, Jane Street, TransMarket Group

## Prompt:

A fair coin is flipped 6 times. Find the probability of obtaining exactly 3 consecutive heads somewhere in the 6 fl ips.

## Explanation:

We have 4 forms that the sequence can be in, which are HHH - --, -HHH - -, - -HHH -, and ---HHH . Note that the first and second are respectively reflection of the fourth and third sequences, so we can just do the first two sequences and then multiply by 2 . For the first sequence, the 4th flip must be tails, but the other two can be either parity, so this yields 4 possibilities. For the second outcome, the first and second dashes must be T , but the last can be either, so this yields 2 outcomes. Therefore, we have a total of 2(4 + 2) = 12 sample points that have a single run of three heads, so the probability is 12 64 = 3 16 .