There are ( 7 2 ) ways to pick the two people that select the same value. Then, there are 6 ways to pick the value they both select. Lastly, there are 5! ways to permute the 5 people to the other 5 values. This means our total probability is

## 365 Random Particles

Company : None

## Prompt:

$$\frac { ( \begin{matrix} 7 \\ 2 \end{matrix} ) 6 ! } { 6 ^ { 7 } } = \frac { 3 5 } { 6 4 8 }$$

1000

infinitesimal particles, each of which travels at a constant rate of one meter per second, are randomly placed along a line of meter length. When two particles collide, both immediately change direction and continue traveling at a constant rate of one meter per second. How long will it take for all of the particles to fall off of the line on average?

## Explanation:

One key feature to note is the collision property. Before a collision, two particles are going in opposite directions towards each other. After a collision, the two particles are still going in opposite directions, but now away from each other. Thus, you can imagine switching the labels of the two particles after the collision and its as if the collision never occurred. Furthermore, there is no difference with regards to which direction a particle moves in due to symmetry. A particle at the x -th meter will fall off of the line in x seconds, on average. If it were traveling in the other direction, you can set x to 1 -x . Hence, the problem is asking for the expected value of the maximum of 1000 independent and identically distributed random variables that are distributed uniformly between 0 and 1. The expected value of the minimum for a uniform distribution of n samples on [0 , 1] is n n +1 , or 1000 1001 for this problem.

## 366 Shuffled Deck

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose we have a standard deck of cards arranged in some order. We shuffle the cards by cutting the deck into two halves: Cards in positions 1 -26 and 27 -52 . Then, we alternate cards from each half of the deck. Namely, the cards in positions 1 -26 are now in positions 2 , 4 , . . . , 52 . and the cards in positions 27 -52 are now in positions 1 , 3 , . . . , 51 . What is the minimum number of shuffles needed before the deck returns to it's original state?