## Prompt:

There are two shelves, the top and bottom. The top shelf contains red socks with probability 0 . 4 and black socks with probability 0 . 6 . The bottom shelf contains red socks with probability 0 . 7 and black socks with probability 0 . 3 . I pick a shelf randomly. From that self, I picked 2 red socks. What is the probability that those 2 red socks come from the top shelf? Assume you have so many socks that taking from either shelf does not change the probability of future socks that are drawn.

## Explanation:

This is a classic conditional probability question. A sure fire way to do this problem is to use Bayes Theorem. Applying Bayes for

$$\mathbb { P } [ \text {Top Shell} | R R ] = \\ \frac { \mathbb { P } [ R R | \text {Top Shell} ] \cdot \mathbb { P } [ \text {Top Shell} ] } { \mathbb { P } [ R R ] } = \frac { 0 . 4 \cdot 0 . 4 \cdot 0 . 5 } { 0 . 4 \cdot 0 . 4 \cdot 0 . 5 + 0 . 7 \cdot 0 . 7 \cdot 0 . 5 } = \frac { 1 6 } { 6 5 }$$

## 138 Non-Consecutive Sequence

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that you flip a coin n times and it turns out that no consecutive heads appear in the sequence. Let E ( n ) be the expected number of heads that appear given this information. Compute lim n →∞ E ( n ) n . The answer is in the form a b + √ c for integers a, b, and c with c minimal. Find abc .

## Explanation:

We are going to combine a lot of different results in this question, specifically from Fibonacci Limit I and II. Let A ( n ) be the number of sequences of length n with no consecutive heads. Then A (1) = 2 and A (2) = 3 (only HH doesn't satisfy this). For a sequence of length n to satisfy our constraint, it either starts with T or HT . It can't start with HH , as that would violate the condition.

There are A ( n -1) sequences starting with T that satisfy this condition, as the first flip is T and the other n -1 spots must not contain any consecutive heads. There are A ( n -2) sequences starting with HT by the same logic with with n -2 remaining spots. Thus, A ( n ) = A ( n -1) + A ( n -2) with A (1) = 2 and A (2) = 3 . This is just the Fibonacci sequence shifted. For the purposes of this question, the exact shift will not matter. All that matters is the amount of shift of the numerator relative to the denominator.