uniformly at random from the remaining 48 card deck to replace the minimum. Find the expected value of the card John puts into the subset.

## Explanation:

Removing the minimum only tells us information about the values of the other 3 cards in the subset, not about the overall deck of cards. This is since John is only comparing the minimum in the subset he selected. Therefore, the answer is just the same as if he selected from an unaltered deck, which would have expected value 7 .

## 945 Fibonacci Ratio

Company :

## Prompt:

$$\text { Let } F _ { n } \text { be the nth Fibonacci number. Compute } \frac { F _ { 1 } + F _ { 2 } + F _ { 3 } + \cdots + F _ { 3 0 0 } } { F _ { 3 } + F _ { 6 } + F _ { 9 } + \cdots + F _ { 3 0 0 } } .$$

## Explanation:

Consider F 0 + F 1 + F 2 + · · · + F 300 . Note that by the definition of Fibonacci Numbers,

$$F _ { 1 } + F _ { 2 } = F _ { 3 } , F _ { 4 } + F _ { 5 } = F _ { 6 } , \dots , F _ { 2 9 8 } + F _ { 2 9 9 } = F _ { 3 0 0 }$$

Therefore, we can rewrite the numerator as ( F 3 + F 3 ) + ( F 6 + F 6 ) + · · · +( F 300 + F 300 ) = 2( F 3 + F 6 + F 9 + · · · + F 300 ) . This means our answer is 2 .

## 946 Wire Connection

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

10 wires each of length 1 mile lay parallel to each other. Electrician A can only see one side of the wires, while Electrician B can only see the other side of the wires. They randomly connect pairs of distinct wire ends until all ends are accounted for. What is the probability that the connections form a closed circuit with total length 10 miles?

## Explanation:

There are 10 ends on the left side of the wires and 10 ends on the right side of the wires. Without loss of generality, we connect the right end of the first wire to the right end of the second wire. In order to retain the possibility of forming a 10 mile loop, there are 8 possible left wire ends with which the left end of the second wire can join with, out of a possible 9. Without loss of generality, we connect the left end of the second wire