## Prompt:

You are given an undirected graph with 10 nodes. From every node, you are able to access any other node (including itself), all with an equal probability of 1 / 10 . What is the expected number of steps to reach all nodes at least once (rounded to the nearest step)?

## Explanation:

When rewording it to think about it as a 10 -sided die, and we are trying to figure out how many rolls it will take to see all 10 sides at least once, it is easy to see that this is a classic coupon collector's problem.

The time until the first result appears is 1 as it takes one step to start somewhere. After that, the random time until a second (different) result appears is geometrically distributed with parameter of success 9 10 , hence a mean 10 9 (as the mean of a geometrically distributed random variable is the inverse of its parameter). After that, the random time until a third (different) result appears is geometrically distributed with parameter of success 8 10 , hence a mean of 10 8 . And so on, until the random time of appearance of the last and tenth node, which is geometrically distributed with parameter of success 1 10 , hence with mean 10 1 .

We now know the mean time to see the first through last numbers pop up, so our total expectation will be summing all of the individual expectations up.

$$\sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 1 0 } \frac { 1 0 } { k } \approx 2 9 . 2 9$$

This yields our solution of 29 .

## 95 Black or Yellow

Company : None

## Prompt:

There are four balls, two black and two yellow, in a box. You pick out one at a time at random without replacement. Before picking each one out, you guess at the color, and if you're right, you receive in dollars the number of balls left in the container before you chose it. For example, if you guess the first ball correctly, you would receive $4 because there were 4 balls remaining in the box before you picked one out. Assuming optimal play, what is the expected payoff for this game?

## Explanation:

The first pick has a 1 2 probability of being right with a payoff of $4 . The second pick has a 2 3 probability of being right with a payoff of $3 , since you will always pick the majority choice. The third pick has two cases: