## Explanation:

Note that 15 ≡ -2 mod 17 , so we can say that 15 2021 mod 17 = ( -2) 2021 mod 17 . Since ( -2) 4 = 16 , this is desirable, as 16 ≡ -1 mod 17 , so we can write the above as

$$[ ( - 2 ) ^ { 4 } ] ^ { 5 0 5 } \cdot ( - 2 ) \bmod 1 7 = ( - 1 ) ^ { 5 0 5 } \cdot ( - 2 ) \bmod 1 7 = 2$$

## 230 Extra Coin

Company : Jane Street, Citadel, DE Shaw, WorldQuant, Akuna, SIG, Goldman Sachs, Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

Alice has n +1 fair coins and Bob has n fair coins. What is the probability that Alice will flip more heads than Bob if both flip all of their coins?

## Explanation:

This can be solved with symmetry. Let us compare the number of heads in Alice's first n coins and Bob's n coins. There are three possible outcomes. Let E 1 be the event that Alice has strictly more heads than Bob; E 2 be the event that Alice and Bob have the same number of heads; E 3 be the event that Alice has fewer heads than Bob. By symmetry, P ( E 1 ) = P ( E 3 ) = x and P ( E 2 ) = y . Since ∑ ω ∈ Ω P ( ω ) = 1 , 2 x + y = 1 . For E 1 , Alice will always have more heads than Bob, regardless of Alice's final coin result. Furthermore, for E 3 , Alice will never have more heads than Bob, regardless of Alice's final coin result. Thus, only event E 2 depends on Alice's n + 1 th coin flip, in which Alice will win half the time (with a result of heads). Thus, Alice's total probability of winning is: x +0 . 5 y = x +(1 -2 x ) = 1 2 .

## 231 Dice-Coin Paradigm

Company : None

## Prompt:

We flip a fair coin until we obtain our first tails. Given the first tails occurs on the n th flip, we roll a fair 6 -sided die n times. Find the probability that the die value 1 is observed in the rolls.

## Explanation:

The easier term to calculate is the probability that do not observe any 1's, and then subtract this probability from 1 . We condition on the number of flips of the coin needed to see the first tails. Let O be the event that we don't see a 1 in the game and T k be the event that we see the first tails on the k th flip, k ≥ 1 . We have that P [ O ] = ∑ ∞ k =1 P [ O | T k ] P [ T k ] . We have that P [ T k ] is the probability that the first k -1 fl ips are heads