## 853 Split 100

Company : None

## Prompt:

The integers 1 -100 are split into two groups containing 30 and 70 numbers respectively. Compute the probability that numbers 6 and 66 are in different groups.

## Explanation:

There are a total of ( 100 30 ) ways to split the 100 numbers into the two groups. In order for 6 and 66 to be in separate groups, one must be assigned to the smaller group, and the other must be assigned to the larger group. There are 2 ∗ ( 98 29 ) ways to ensure that 6 and 66 are in separate groups. Putting it all together we find our answer to be 2 ∗ ( 98 29 ) / ( 100 30 ) = 14 33 .

## 854 Rain Chance II

Company : Virtu Financial

## Prompt:

This weekend, there is a 40% chance it rains on Saturday and a 70% chance it rains on Sunday. Without assuming independence, find the tightest upper bound on the probability it does not rain this weekend.

## Explanation:

Let A and B be the events that it rains on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. We want to upper bound P [( A ∪ B ) c ] = 1 -P [ A ∪ B ] . To get the maximum upper bound, we need to minimize P [ A ∪ B ] . The extreme case to minimize the quantity is that A ⊆ B i.e. rain on Saturday always implies rain on Sunday. If A ⊆ B , then P [ A ∪ B ] = P [ B ] = 0 . 7 . Therefore, P [( A ∪ B ) c ] ≤ 1 -0 . 7 = 0 . 3 .

## 855 Independent Zeta

Company : Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

Let X and Y be independent Zeta (2) random variables. This means that they have PMF P [ X = k ] ∝ 1 k 2 for all positive integers k . This means that the PMF is a constant multiple of 1 /k 2 for each k . Find Cov ( X,Y ) . If it is + ∞ , enter 123 . If it is -∞ , enter -123 . If it does not exist, enter 12345 .