## Prompt:

Two quant firms have client inflow that is well-modeled by independent Poisson processes. The respective intensity parameters are 6 and 10 . Clients give outstanding reviews about the service with respective probabilities 1 6 and 1 5 for the two firms, independent of one another. The clients that give outstanding reviews are sent a thank you card. Find the expected time between clients that receive thank you cards.

## Explanation:

We first use Poisson thinning to note that the inflow of clients sent a thank you card from each firm is also a Poisson process. For the two respective firms, the rates are 6 · 1 6 = 1 and 10 · 1 5 = 2 . Therefore, the time between clients being sent thank you cards for each firm follow IID Exp (1) and Exp (2) distributions, respectively. The time between any clients being sent thank you cards is min { X 1 , X 2 } , where X i ∼ Exp ( i ) , as whichever firm has a shorter interarrival time of clients being sent thank you cards will represent the time between clients (from either firm) being sent cards.

Then, we can note that for any t &gt; 0 , from the known facts about the exponential random variable,

$$\mathbb { P } [ \min \{ X _ { 1 } , X _ { 2 } \} > t ] = \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } > t ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 2 } > t ] = e ^ { - t } \cdot e ^ { - 2 t } = e ^ { - 3 t }$$

Therefore, we have that min { X 1 , X 2 } ∼ Exp (3) . In particular, this means the mean of this is 1 3 , which is our answer.

## 268 Fixed Point Limit I

Company : Citadel, WorldQuant

## Prompt:

Let F n be the number of fixed points of a random function f : S n → S n , where S n = { 1 , 2 , . . . , n } . Find lim n →∞ P [ F n = 5] . The answer is in the form c e , where e is Euler's constant and c is a constant. Find c .

## Explanation:

The events that each of the values is a fixed point are independent, as we can choose a function f from the set of all functions, so as there are n possible values in S n and each has probability 1 /n of being fixed (exactly one of the n values would make it fixed), we have that F n ∼ Binom ( n, 1 /n ) . By Poisson Limit Theorem, we have that F n = ⇒ Poisson (1) , so P [ F n = 5] = 1 5! e -5 , so our answer is 1 / 120 .

## 269 Movie Arrivals

Company :