the exchangeability of the remaining pairs, we just need to now find the probability of intersection between any two line segments to find the total number of expected intersections.

Our question can be formalized as the following: Suppose that we have X 1 , X 2 , X 3 , and X 4 selected uniformly at random from the circumference of a circle. Draw a chord between X 1 and X 2 and a chord between X 3 and X 4 . Find the probability that the chords intersect. Since the circle is rotationally invariant, we can just lock in X 1 at (1 , 0) . Then, we can consider all possible orderings of X 2 , X 3 , and X 4 in terms of distance (radians CCW) from the origin. By drawing out the different permutations, you can see that there is an intersection between the segments if X 2 is between X 3 and X 4 (or vice versa). This corresponds to 2 of the 3! = 6 possible orderings of the random variables, so the probability is 1 / 3 .

The above yields that the expected number of intersections is ( n 2 ) -n 3 = n ( n -3) 6 . In particular, n = 12 here yields 18 intersections on average.

## 273 Expecting HTH

Company : None

## Prompt:

On average, how many tosses of a fair coin does it take to see HTH?

## Explanation:

Let x be the expected value of the number of tosses to see HTH at the start of the game. There is a 1 2 probability the toss is a T and you start over with a new expected value of x +1 . There is a 1 4 probability you get HH and then start over with a new expected value of x . There is a 1 8 probability you get an HTT and then start over with a new expected value of x +3 . There is a 1 8 probability that you get HTH and end the game. Thus:

$$x = \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( x + 1 ) + \frac { 1 } { 4 } ( x ) + \frac { 1 } { 8 } ( x + 3 ) + \frac { 1 } { 8 } ( 3 )$$

Solving for x , we find that x = 10 .

## 274 Mental Black Scholes

Company :