assign more density there. Thus, our answer should be closer to 3 than it is to -1 .

## 968 Queen First

Company : SIG, Citadel

## Prompt:

Hannah shuffles a standard deck of cards. She wins $100 if the last queen appears before the last king. Her friend Alissa looks at the card order and tells Hannah that there are exactly two queens before the first king. Given this additional information, how much should Hannah expect to earn?

## Explanation:

Suppose that we are given that all the queens and all the kings appear in the x 1 , x 2 , . . . , x 8 -th spots, where 1 ≤ x 1 &lt; x 2 &lt; · · · &lt; x 8 ≤ 52 . Each possible ordering of the queens and kings among the 8 spots occurs with the same probability. Hence, we only need to consider possible orderings of queens and kings between 8 arbitrary spots.

Since we are given that the first 2 cards are queens, and the third card is a king, our problem becomes: how many different orderings of the remaining 5 cards (3 kings and 2 queens) end with a king. This probability is simply 3 5 , since there is a 3 5 chance that the last card is a king. Putting it all together, we find that Hannah's total expected earnings is 3 5 · 100 = 60 .

## 969 Competitive Sampling

Company :

## Prompt:

You and your opponent each draw a number from U (0 , 1) without revealing it. You each have the option to redraw and keep that value instead, and the other person doesn't know which choice they made. The person with the higher number wins. The optimal strategy is of the form reroll if the number is less than k . Find k to 3 decimal places.

## Explanation:

To find the nash equilibrium, suppose you reroll if your number is less than p , and your opponent rerolls if theirs is less than q . To compute your chance of winning, consider the cases:

Case 1 : Both players reroll with probability pq . At this point, both players are equally likely to win so the chance of winning is 0 . 5 .

Case 2 : You reroll but your opponent doesn't with probability p (1 -q ) . Conditional on your opponent not