## Explanation:

We can use the Law of Total probability to solve this problem. Let X be the total number of Brussels sprouts you will eat and Y be the value of the dice roll. By the Law of Total Probability:

$$E [ X ] = P ( Y = \{ 1 , 2 \} ) \times E [ X | Y = \{ 1 , 2 \} ] + P ( Y = \{ 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 \} ) \times E [ X | Y = \{ 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 \} ] \\ E [ X | Y = \{ 1 , 2 \} ] = 1 . 5 + E [ X ] \\ E [ X | Y = \{ 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 \} ] = 4 . 5 \\ P ( Y = \{ 1 , 2 \} ) = \frac { 1 } { 3 } \\ P ( Y = \{ 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 \} ) = \frac { 2 } { 3 } \\ \text {Substituting in values. we find that:}$$

Substituting in values, we find that:

$$E [ X ] = \frac { 1 } { 3 } ( 1 . 5 + E [ X ] ) + \frac { 2 } { 3 } ( 4 . 5 ) \Rightarrow E [ X ] = \frac { 2 1 } { 4 }$$

## 105 Coloring Components II

Company : Squarepoint Capital, Akuna

## Prompt:

Consider a line of 25 adjacent colorless squares. Color in each individual square black with probability 3 4 or white with probability 1 4 , independent of all other squares. A connected component is a maximal sequence of adjacent squares all with the same color. For example, BBWBWWWBBW has 6 connected components. Find the expected number of connected components in our line.

## Explanation:

Let C n be the number of connected components when we have n squares in a line. We will derive a recurrence relation for E [ C n ] .

Suppose that we want to find E [ C n ] , the expected number of connected components with n squres in a row. We can find this by conditioning on the n -1 st square. We want to find the probability that the squares match in color. This probability is just 3 4 · 3 4 + 1 4 · 1 4 = 5 8 because of the fact that they are either both black (the first term) or both white (the second term). If it matches, then we have E [ C n -1 ] connected components, as we don't add in any new ones if it matches. If it differs, then we have 1 + E [ C n -1 ] connected components, as the differing color will add in a new component. Therefore, by Law of Total Expectation, E [ C n ] = 5 8 · E [ C n -1 ] + 3 8 · (1 + E [ C n -1 ]) = E [ C n -1 ] + 3 8 . This recurrence along with the initial condition that

$$= \{ 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 \} ) = \frac { 2 } { 3 }$$