## Explanation:

Label the couples 1 -9 and let I i be the indicator that the i th married couple is paired up together. Then T = I 1 + . . . I 9 gives the total number of couples that are paired up. By linearity of expectation and the exchangeability of the couples (no couple is more likely to be paired up together than any other), E [ T ] = 9 E [ I 1 ] . E [ I 1 ] is just the probability that couple 1 is paired together. Fix the first member of the couple in some random pair. Of the 17 other people that can be this person's partner in the pair, only 1 is their married partner, so E [ I 1 ] = 1 17 . Thus, by plugging in above, E [ T ] = 9 17 .

## 713 Even 7

Company :

## Prompt:

Three fair 6 -sided dice are rolled. Given that at least 2 of the dice show an even number, find the probability that the sum is at most 7 .

## Explanation:

First, let's find the number of ways in which we have at least 2 dice show an even value. Since the dice are fair, we can pair each combination up ( a, b, c ) satisfying our condition with (7 -a, 7 -b, 7 -c ) . These give mirror reflections between permutations that have at least 2 even values and less than 2 even values. Therefore, half of all outcomes have at least 2 even values, so as there are 6 3 = 216 total outcomes, 1 2 · 216 = 108 of them have at least 2 even values.

For at least two even values to appear AND have a sum at most 7 , the outcomes must be some permutation of (1 , 2 , 4) , (2 , 2 , 3) , (2 , 2 , 1) , or (2 , 2 , 2) . Respectively, there are 3! , 3 , 3 , and 1 permutation of each sequence, so this means that there are 6 + 3 + 3 + 1 = 13 permutations that satisfy our conditions. Thus, the probability is 13 108 .

## 714 All Attainable Values

Company :

## Prompt:

How many 6 -sided dice with values on each side in the set { 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 } are there with the property that when rolled twice, for each integer 2 ≤ k ≤ 12 , there is positive probability that the sum is exactly k ? Note that not every value in the set necessarily needs to be used and that two dice are considered indistinguishable if they contains the exactly same amount of faces corresponding to each value in the set, regardless of the labelling of the sides. Assume each side appears with equal probability.