## Explanation:

To find the replication, we can see that S T -K and S have the same slope of 1 . However, the forward product has a shift of -K . We can replicate these "shifts" by using bonds. However, we need to discount the bond to time0 . We know that the 2 bonds pays 2 at timeT . Discounting, we get 2 e -. 04 = 1 . 92 .

Combining everything, we get F 0 = 3 -2 e -. 04 ≈ 1 . 08

## 882 Last Lightbulb

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , X 3 , X 4 ∼ Exp (1) IID represent the lifetimes of 4 lightbulbs before burning out. Find the expected time until the last lightbulb burns out.

## Explanation:

We use the fact that if X 1 , X 2 , . . . , X n ∼ Exp ( λ ) IID, then min { X 1 , . . . , X n } ∼ Exp ( n λ ) . This is a good exercise to prove if you have not done so before. The time until the 4 th lightbulb burns out is equal to the sum of the times between lightbulb burnouts. Namely, let T 1 be the time until the first lightbulb burns out, T 2 be the time until the second lightbulb burns out after the first, T 3 be the time until the third lightbulb burns out after the second, and T 4 be the additional time until the last lightbulb burns out after. Then S = T 1 + T 2 + T 3 + T 4 represents the total time it takes until no lightbulbs are left.

T 1 = min { X 1 , X 2 , X 3 , X 4 } , as it is the time for the first lightbulb to die. Therefore, T 1 ∼ Exp (4) by our fact before and E [ T 1 ] = 1 4 . As the exponential distribution is memoryless, at the time the first dies, the remaining life of the other lightbulbs are still each Exp (1) distributed. Without loss of generality, say lightbulb 4 was the one that burned out. If R 1 , R 2 , R 3 ∼ Exp (1) IID represent the time after the first lightbulb burnt out until the next, Therefore, T 2 = min { R 1 , R 2 , R 3 } , meaning T 2 ∼ Exp (3) by our fact before, meaning E [ T 2 ] = 1 3 . Continuing this same logic on two lightbulbs and the final lightbulb yields E [ T 3 ] = 1 2 and E [ T 4 ] = 1 . By linearity of expectation, we get that

$$\mathbb { E } [ S ] = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } = \frac { 2 5 } { 1 2 }$$

## 883 Car and Fly II

Company :