## Explanation:

If you get tails on your first toss (which has probability 1 / 2 ), then you must start over again. If you gets heads on your first toss, then you can either get HH or HT after your second toss (each with probability 1 / 4 ). If you get HT , then you are done. Otherwise, you only need one more tail to finish the game on the next turn.

To sum up our reasoning, if you flip H , then the event of ending up with a HT depends entirely on the event that you get a T . This is because if you do not get a T on the next flip, then you must get a H , which means that you have the same chance to finish the game on the next round. Let X denote the number of flips to get HT . Let Y denote the number of flips to get T . Thus, we have the following expression:

$$\mathbb { E } [ X ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left ( 1 + \mathbb { E } [ Y ] \right ) + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left ( \mathbb { E } [ X ] + 1 \right )$$

$$Y \sim G e o ( 0 . 5 ) \\ \Rightarrow \mathbb { E } [ Y ] = 2$$

Now, we can solve for E [ X ] .

## 914 Uniform Order III

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . , X 20 be IID Unif (0 , 1) random variables. Compute

$$\mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 6 } = \min \{ X _ { 1 } , \dots , X _ { 1 6 } \} \, | \, X _ { 1 } = \max \{ X _ { 1 } , \dots , X _ { 1 6 } \} , X _ { 1 7 } < X _ { 1 8 } ]$$

$$\mathbb { E } [ X ] = 2 \left ( \frac { 3 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) = 4$$

Note that

## Explanation:

There is quite a bit going on here, so we need to decipher what this probability statement is really saying and how we can simplify it. We want the conditional probability that X 16 is the smallest of the first 16 random variables given that X 1 is the largest of the first 16 and that X 17 &lt; X 18 . Note that each of the random variables are IID, so the ordering of X 17 and X 18 with respect to each other has no bearing on the ordering of the first 16 random variables in the sequence. Therefore,

$$\mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 6 } = \min \{ X _ { 1 } , \dots , X _ { 1 6 } \} \ | \ X _ { 1 } = \max \{ X _ { 1 } , \dots , X _ { 1 6 } \} , X _ { 1 7 } < X _ { 1 8 } ] = \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 6 } = \min \{ X _ { 1 } , \dots , X _ { 1 6 } \} \ | \ X _ { 1 } = \max \{ X _ { 1 } , \dots , X _ { 1 6 } \} ]$$

as that information does not tell us anything about our probability of interest.