## 618 Ping Pong Tournament II

Company : Five Rings, Two Sigma

## Prompt:

50

people are competing in a ping pong tournament where there is only one ping pong table. The competitors are numbered 1 through 50 . Suppose that if two competitors meet, the one with the larger number wins. Two competitors are chosen at random, and the loser is removed from the tournament. The winner moves on to the next round, where their opponent is chosen at random. This process is repeated until one person is left (a total 49 rounds will be played). Compute the probability that competitor 49 is still in the tournament after the first 10 rounds have been played.

## Explanation:

In order for competitor 49 to survive the first 10 rounds, either (1) competitor 49 does not appear until the 11th round, or (2) competitor 49 plays their first round within the first 10 rounds, and competitor 50 does not play within the first 10 rounds.

Consider case 1. Note that there are a total of 39 rounds between rounds 11 and 49, inclusive. If we want competitor 49 to play their first round after the 10th round, then competitor 49 must be at position 12 or later (39 possible positions) in a random ordering of the 50 competitors. The probability of case 1 occuring is then 39 50 .

Next, consider case 2. In this case, in a random ordering of 50 competitors, competitor 49 must be among the first 11 competitors, and competitor 50 must be among the last 39 competitors. This occurs with probability ( 11 1 )( 39 1 ) 48! 50! = 429 2450 . By countable additivity, we find the answer to be 39 50 + 429 2450 = 234 245 .

## 619 Square Cross

Company :

## Prompt:

A square of side length 20 is formed in front of you. You select a point uniformly at random from the interior of the square. You then proceed to form a circle of radius R ∼ Unif (0 , 10) , independent of the point selected. Find the probability that the circle you create does not intersect the square at any point.