We derive a recurrence relation for this. Let t n be the number of ways to tile a 2 × n grid with 1 × 2 tiles. Consider t n +1 and the relationship between it and t n . In this new grid, if we place a tile on the ( n +1) st column vertically, there are t n remaining ways to tile it. If we place the tile horizontally, then we must place another horizontally below it and there are t n -1 valid ways to tile it in this case. Therefore, we have that t n +1 = t n + t n -1 . Furthermore, we can quickly see that t 1 = 1 and t 2 = 2 . Therefore, we can see that t n = F n +1 , the ( n +1) st Fibonacci number, as this is just the Fibonacci sequence shifted up 1 . In particular, n = 11 here, so t 11 = F 12 = 144 .

## 164 Triangle of Primes

Company :

## Prompt:

20 points are selected from a circle and labeled 1-20 in clockwise order. Line segments are drawn between every pair of points whose labels differ by a prime number. How many triangles are formed whose vertices are among the original 20 points?

## Explanation:

Suppose we have a triangle that satisfies the conditions presented in the problem. Denote the vertices as a, b, c , the values of a, b, c correspond to their labels. Let a &gt; b &gt; c . Note that it must be the case that a -b = p 1 , b -c = p 2 , and a -c = p 3 , where p 1 , p 2 , p 3 are primes. Notice that p 3 = p 1 + p 2 . Hence, either p 1 = 2 or p 2 = 2 . Now, we use casework.

If the primes are 2, 3, 5, then the smallest number c can be between 1 and 15 . If the primes are 2, 5, 7, then c can be between 1 and 13. If the primes are 2, 11, 13, then c can be between 1 and 7. Finally, if the primes are 2, 17, 19, then the c = 1 . Hence, there are a total of 36 possible values for c . Depending on whether p 1 = 2 or p 2 = 2 , there are two possible ways to assign a and b per each value of c . Our final answer is therefore 2 · 36 = 72 .

## 165 Cylindrical Cone

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that a point ( X,Y,Z ) is uniformly randomly selected from the upwards-facing cylinder of radius r and height h whose lower base is centered at (0 , 0 , 0) . Find the probability that this point also lies in the cone whose base and height is the same as the cylinder.