## Explanation:

The numbers 1 , 2 , 5 and 6 must always be among the numbers on the die. If they weren't the sums of 2 , 3 , 11 , and 12 would be impossible. To make sums of 5 and 9 possible, we must include one of 3 or 4 on our die. The last value can be anything afterwards.

Let D 3 and D 4 represent the sets of dice arrangements that have 3 and 4 present, respectively. We want | D 3 ∪ D 4 | , the number of dice that contain at least one of 3 or 4 . By Inclusion-Exclusion, we have that

$$| D _ { 3 } \cup D _ { 4 } | = | D _ { 3 } | + | D _ { 4 } | - | D _ { 3 } \cap D _ { 4 } |$$

| D 3 | = | D 4 | = 6 , as we fix 1 side to be 3 (or 4 ), and then the other can be anything. Then | D 3 ∩ D 4 | = 1 , as this corresponds to just the standard die with all values 1 -6 . Therefore, there are 6 + 6 -1 = 11 dice satisfying this property.

## 715 Better in Red III

Company : Citadel, Jane Street, SIG, Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

A 3 × 3 × 3 cube is composed of 27 1 × 1 × 1 cubes that are white by default. All the surfaces of the 3 × 3 × 3 cube are painted red and then the cube is disassembled such that all orientations of all cubes are equally likely. You select a random small cube and notice that all 5 sides that are visible to you are white. What is the probability the last face not visible to you is red?

## Explanation:

Let R be the event that the last side not visible to you is red and W be the event that the other sides visible are not red. We want P [ R | W ] = P [ R ∩ W ] P [ W ] . For P [ R ∩ W ] , we need the last side to be red and have that side be facing away from us. Since the orientation is random, the probability the red side is facing away from us is 1 6 . In addition, 6 of the 27 cubes have exactly one red side, so P [ R ∩ W ] = 1 27 . Then, in the denominator, we can have 5 white sides from choosing a cube that would satisfy the numerator event or just choosing the center cube. The center cube is white on all sides so there is no need to orient it. Therefore, P [ W ] = 1 27 + 1 27 = 2 27 . Substituting in, we get P [ R | W ] = 1 2 .

## 716 Meeting on a Grid

Company : Optiver