## Prompt:

Let \(U \sim \mathrm{Unif}(0,1)\) and \(V \sim \mathrm{Exp}(1)\) be independent. Find \(\mathbb{P}[U+V>1]\). The answer is in the form \(a-e^b\) for integers \(a\) and \(b\). Find \(ab\).

## Explanation:

The easiest way to do this is to condition on the value of \(U\). This is because the exponential is a lot easier to deal with to find a tail probability. The CDF of \(V\) is given by \(F_V(v)=1-e^{-v}\) for \(v>0\). Therefore, as \(0 \le U \le 1\), \(1-U\) is as well. Therefore,

\[
\mathbb{P}[U+V>1]=\int_0^1 \mathbb{P}[U+V>1 \mid U=u] f_U(u)\,du
\]

where \(f_U(u)\) is the PDF of \(U\). This PDF is just \(1\) on \((0,1)\), so we are fine.

\[
\mathbb{P}[U+V>1 \mid U=u]=\mathbb{P}[V>1-u]=1-F_V(1-u)=e^{-(1-u)}=e^{u-1}.
\]

This means our answer is

\[
\int_0^1 e^{u-1}\,du = 1-e^{-1}.
\]

The answer is then \(1\cdot(-1)=-1\).

## 719 Uniform Movement

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

Let \(X,Y \sim \mathrm{Unif}(3,4)\) IID. Find \(\mathbb{E}[|X-Y|]\).

## Explanation:

Note that \(X=3+U_1\) and \(Y=3+U_2\), where \(U_1,U_2 \sim \mathrm{Unif}(0,1)\) IID. Therefore, we can really write this as

\[
\mathbb{E}[|(3+U_1)-(3+U_2)|]=\mathbb{E}[|U_1-U_2|].
\]

The trick here is that \(|U_1-U_2|\) is the length of the middle segment of two order statistics of the \(\mathrm{Unif}(0,1)\) random variable. This is because of the absolute value here denoting that we look at the length of the middle segment between the two order statistics. In expectation, each of the intervals \((0,\min\{U_1,U_2\})\), \((\min\{U_1,U_2\},\max\{U_1,U_2\})\), and \((\max\{U_1,U_2\},1)\) should be the same length. Therefore, as their lengths sum to \(1\), each should be \(1/3\) in length. In particular, this means that \(\mathbb{E}[|X-Y|]=\mathbb{E}[|U_1-U_2|]=\frac{1}{3}\).

## 720 Unlucky Seven I

Company : Jane Street