$$h e r e i s \text { exactly one is } \frac { \frac { 2 } { 3 } } { \frac { 5 } { 6 } } = \frac { 4 } { 5 } .$$

## 670 Convergent intervals

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose you continually randomly sample nested intervals from [0 , 1] , halving the size each time. That is, the next interval is [ x, x +0 . 5] , where x ∼ U (0 , 0 . 5) , and so on. What is the variance of the point this converges to?

## Explanation:

The point that the intervals converge to will become arbitrarily close to the center of our most recent interval. If our current interval is of length x , the distance of the next interval's center to the current interval's center is distributed U (0 , x/ 4) . Recalling that the variance of a continuous uniform random variable is ( b -a ) 2 12 , we can consider the point of convergence as an infinite sum of uniformly distributed random variables.

$$V a r \left ( \sum _ { n = 0 } ^ { \infty } X _ { i } \right ) = \sum _ { n = 0 } ^ { \infty } V a r ( X _ { i } ) = \sum _ { n = 0 } ^ { \infty } \frac { ( 1 / 4 \cdot ( 1 / 2 ) ^ { n } ) ^ { 2 } } { 1 2 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 6 }$$

## 671 Parking Rush

Company :

## Prompt:

There are 10 parking spots in front of QuantGuide headquarters. By 9:00 AM, all 10 parking spots are occupied. QuantGuide's 3 executives head home early in the afternoon, vacating their parking spots at random times distributed independently and uniformly between 12:00 PM and 3:00 PM. Andy is one of QuantGuide's 9 lazy employees; lazy employees arrive at the office at random times distributed independently and uniformly between 12:00 PM and 3:00 PM. If a parking spot is vacant when a lazy employee arrives, then that employee will occupy that spot until 5:00 PM. Otherwise, the lazy employee will call in sick and return home. What is the probability that Andy calls in sick?

## Explanation:

Let E 1 , E 2 , E 3 denote the times at which the 3 executives leave. Let L 1 , L 2 , . . . , L 9 denote the times at which the 9 latecomers arrive. Note that since E 1 , E 2 , E 3 , L 1 , L 2 , . . . , L 9 iid ∼ Unif ([12 , 15]) , by symmetry, any ordering of E 1 , E 2 , E 3 , L 1 , L 2 , . . . , L 9 by increasing time of day occurs with equal probability.