## Prompt:

Five boys and five girls are seated in a row at the movie theater. To ensure that the children are engaged during the movie, the teacher mandates that no two children of the same gender can sit next to each other. How many arrangements are possible?

## Explanation:

There are two possible choices of seats where the boys can sit (either positions 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 or 2, 4, 6, 8, 10); the girls must choose the other. For each choice, there are 5! possible permutations of the boys and 5! permutations of the girls. Thus, the total number of seating arrangements is:

$$2 \times ( 5 ! ) ^ { 2 } = 2 8 8 0 0$$

## 682 Ant Collision II

Company :

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob raised their own ants. Alice has 40 ants, while Bob has 80 ants. Alice and Bob stand at opposite ends of an infinitesimally wide string and let all of their ants crawl on the string. Whenever one ant runs into another ant, they both bounce back and change direction. Each of the ants can only move forward. Find the number of collisions between ants that take place.

## Explanation:

Imagine that whenever two ants collide they change bodies. This is a reasonable assumption because of the fact in each collision, both ants will move in the direction of the other ant after the collision. Therefore, it is as if no collision happened at all in this paradigm. With this, we can see that every one of Alice's ants will collide with every one of Bob's ants. This means that there are 40 · 80 = 3200 total ant collisions.

## 683 Pair Die Sum

Company :

## Prompt:

2

red and 2 blue fair 6 -sided dice are rolled and the values are recorded. Find the probability that the sum of the upfaces of the two blue dice is larger than the sum of the upfaces of the two red dice.