The call option has ∆ = 0 . 72 and the put option has ∆ = -0 . 28 . The straddle expires in exactly 1 hour. Currently, you are delta-hedged by buying (or selling) the underlying such that the overall portfolio ∆ is 0 . The straddle expires in exactly 1 hour. Let's say 30 minutes pass and the underlying remains at the same price, how many units of the underlying do you need to buy/sell to remain delta-hedged? Enter -x if your answer is to sell x units. Fractional quantities are allowed.

## Explanation:

At expiry, the ∆ of ITM calls will be 1 and the ∆ of OTM puts will be 0 . Usually, delta-decay is non-linear, but we are dealing with an extremely small time-frame, so we can assume linearity in decay. This means that the delta of the call option will increase by . 28 / 2 = . 14 in 30 minutes and the delta of the put option will increase by 0 . 28 / 2 = . 14 in 30 minutes. Overall, our ∆ will increase by 0 . 14 + 0 . 14 = 0 . 28 .

We were initially delta-hedged, but now we have a ∆ of 0 . 28 . To remain delta-hedged, we need to short 0 . 28 units of the underlying.

## 1110 Prepped Offer?

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

$$4 5 \%$$

of students donât use QuantGuide, 25% are heavy prep users and 30% are light prep users. If the heavy prep users are twice as likely to get an offer as light prep users, and light prep users are twice as likely to get an offer as those that donât use the platform, then what is the probability that if someone got an offer that they were a heavy prep user of QuantGuide?

## Explanation:

Since we can see this is a conditional probability question as they give you information to try and find an associated value, let's use Bayes to solve this. We are solving for P [ Heavy User | Offer ] . Bayes says that this value is equivalent to

$$\mathbb { P } [ \text {Offer} | H e a v y \ U s e r ] \cdot \mathbb { P } [ H e a v y \ U s e r ] / \mathbb { P } [ \text {Offer} ]$$

In the question, we arenât given any hard value on the probability of a person getting an offer given their usage of QuantGuide, only relational information. However, we can still use this information. Lets let p be the probability a non-user gets an offer. Then the probability that a light user gets an offer is 2 p and the probability a heavy user gets an offer is 4 p . Thus, our Bayes equation becomes

$$4 p \cdot 0 . 2 5 / ( 4 p \cdot 0 . 2 5 + 2 p \cdot 0 . 3 + p \cdot 0 . 4 5 ) = \frac { 2 0 } { 4 1 }$$