the 2 consecutive red bead region. Therefore, you get 2 distinct bracelets by ordering the last red and blue bead. The last case is that all of the red bead are separated from one another, in which case we also get 1 bead that alternates in color. Adding these up yields 4 bracelets.

## 123 Options Rho

Company :

## Prompt:

If interest rates increase, how does this affect the price of a European call option?

Enter 1 if it increases, 0 if no change, or -1 if it decreases.

## Explanation:

Think about this intuitively. Interest rates can be considered to be the risk-free rate. If there is a positive risk-free rate, we would expect an asset, call it S , to also increase by this risk free rate. In other words, S = S 0 e rT . This would cause S to increase as r increases.

If the final payoff of a call option is max( S T -K, 0) , then S T would increase due to the statement mentioned above. This would then cause the final payoff to increase, which means that in general, the price of a European call option also increases.

## 124 Car Question

Company : DE Shaw

## Prompt:

Suppose that we have 2 cars parked in a line occupying spaces 1 and 2 of a parking lot. Spaces 3 and 4 are initially empty. Every minute, a car is considered eligible to move forward one space if a) the space in front of them is empty prior to any potential moves and b) label of the space they are on is less than 4 . Suppose that every minute, if a car is eligible to move, it moves forward one space with probability 1 / 2 . What is the expected amount of minutes before the cars occupy spaces 3 to 4 ?

Note: The space in front must be empty before any moves. For example, on the first turn, only the car in space 2 is eligible to move.