## 539 Binomial Contract Pricing I

Company :

## Prompt:

We want to price a derivatives contract on the underlying S , which has payoff S 2 T at expiry, where T = 2 . At each step, the underlying will either double or half. Assuming the initial price of the underlying is S 0 = 5 , what is the time0 price of the contract?

## Explanation:

First, we need to figure out the risk-neutral probabilities. We solve the following equation to determine these probabilities.

$$2 q = ( 1 - q ) * 0 . 5 = 1$$

This gives us q = 1 / 3 . We can then find the final potential payoffs, we can either double twice, half twice, or double, then half. This gives us final underlying values of either 20 , 5 , 1 . 25 . We can square these to get the contract values. We can then use the risk-neutral probabilities to back-propagate to determine the initial value.

For example, for the first up-move, when the underlying has value S 1 = 10 , we either will have S 2 = 20 or S 2 = 5 . We have these contract values and can then calculate the expectation of the contract for this time and value. This gives us:

$$E _ { 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } ( 4 0 0 ) + \frac { 2 } { 3 } ( 2 5 ) = 1 5 0$$

This can be repeated for the other values to get E 0 = 56 . 25 .

## 540 ATM Implied Volatility

Company :

## Prompt:

You have an at-the-money European call option with an expiration of 3 months and a price C 0 = 2 . 3 of the underlying S , with an initial price of S 0 = 12 . What is an approximation of the implied volatility (annualized)? Round to 3 decimal points.

## Explanation:

We can use the following approximation to calculate the price of a vanilla European option.

$$V = \sqrt { \frac { T - t } { 2 \pi } } \sigma S$$