## Prompt:

You have a straddle with initial price V 0 = 3 . 2 with strike K = 15 , a European vanilla call with C 0 = 2 . 3 , both at strike K = 15 , the underlying stock S with initial price S 0 = 17 , and bonds that pay 1 at timeT with initial price B 0 = 0 . 9 .

Find the arbitrage. Give the answer in the format of # Stock + # Call + # Bonds + # Straddle

## Explanation:

We know that a straddle at strike K is going long a call and a put at the same strike. However, we don't have access to the put here. Instead, we need to replicate the put with a call. This can be done with put-call parity. In general,

$$C - P = S - K \Rightarrow P = C - S + K$$

If we long a call and a put, then we have the following quantity: 2 C -S + K . We can then compare the values.

$$V _ { 0 } \stackrel { ? } { = } 2 C - S + K B _ { 0 } \\ 3 . 2 \stackrel { ? } { = } 2 ( 2 . 3 ) - 1 7 + 1 5 ( 0 . 9 ) \\ 3 . 2 \neq 1 . 1$$

/negationslash

For the arbitrage, we long the undervalued side and short the overvalued side. So, we short 1 straddle, long 2 calls, short 1 unit of the underlying, and long 15 units of the bond. This gives us # Stock + # Call + # Bonds + # Straddl -1 + 2 + 15 -1 = 15

## 820 Real Solutions

Company :

## Prompt:

Let M and N be IID Unif (0 , 1) random variables. Let p ( c ) be the probability that Mx 3 + Nx = c has a real solution in the interval (0 , 1) , where 0 &lt; c &lt; 2 . p ( c ) can be written in the form

$$1 - \left [ ( a c ^ { 2 } + b c + d ) I _ { ( 0 , 1 ) } ( c ) + ( r c ^ { 2 } + s c + t ) I _ { ( 1 , 2 ) } ( c ) \right ] \\ \intertext { i f } \intertext { a n c } \intertext { o f a n c } \intertext { d e f a n c }$$

where I ( a,b ) ( x ) = 1 if x ∈ ( a, b ) and 0 otherwise. Furthermore, all of a, b, d, r, s, t are rational numbers. Find a + b + d + r + s + t .