## 111 Double Data Trouble II

Company : Two Sigma

## Prompt:

Suppose that you run linear regression on some dataset and obtain the coefficients ˆ β OLS . Recall that if X is the data and σ 2 is the variance of the IID normal errors, then Var ( ˆ β OLS ) = σ 2 ( X T X ) -1 . If you were to run linear regression again on the dataset where you duplicate each point in your original dataset and obtain new coefficients ˆ β ′ OLS , find the constant c such that Var ( ˆ β ′ OLS ) = c Var ( ˆ β OLS ) . If no such constant exists, enter -1 .

## Explanation:

$$& \text {Explanation} \colon \\ & \text {When we duplicate the data, we are just replacing the matrix X with the matrix X ^ { \prime } = \left [ X \right ] , s o \, X ^ { T } X ^ { \prime } = } \\ & 2 X ^ { T } X . \text { Therefore, } \sigma ^ { 2 } ( 2 X ^ { T } X ) ^ { - 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \sigma ^ { 2 } ( X ^ { T } X ) ^ { - 1 } , \text { which proves our statement.}$$

## 112 Hours of Labor

Company : Millennium Management, Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

A factory wants to maximize the number of hours their employees are not working each year. If none of the employees has a birthday on a given day of the year, then every employee must come to work all 24 hours that day. If at least one person has a birthday on a given day, then none of the employees need to work that day. This factory has good work-life balance, so they want to hire the number of people that would maximize the expected total number of hours that employees are NOT working each year. How many employees should the factory hire? If the answer is infinite, answer -1 .

## Explanation:

Let Y n be the number of hours that employees have off in a year when there are n employees. Then E [ Y n ] = 24 n E [ T n ] , where T n is the number of days that the employees have off in a year. The 24 n comes from the fact that there are 24 hours in a day and that there are n employees each spending that amount of time off. We can calculate T n by using indicators.

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . , X 365 be the indicators of the event that the i th day, 1 ≤ i ≤ 365 , has at least one of the n people born on it. Then T n = X 1 + · · · + X 365 gives the total days off in the year. Then E [ T n ] = 365 E [ X 1 ] by linearity of expectation and the fact that each day is equally likely to have someone born on it.