We would have that e 4 = 1 + 16 36 e 4 + 18 36 e 5 + 2 36 e 6 because of the fact that if we have 4 values, with probability 4 6 per die we roll a value we have already seen. We get the 2 36 from the fact that the first die has 2 values that could appear that are new and only 1 new value for the last one. As the probabilities must sum to 1 , the coefficient of e 5 must be 18 36 . Substituting in, we get that e 4 = 271 55 .

Continuing this pattern, we have that e 3 = 1 + 9 36 e 3 + 21 36 e 4 + 6 36 e 5 by similar logic to the above. For example, to get 2 new distinct values, there are 3 values the first die can take and 2 values the second can take. Plugging in the prior values gives e 3 = 949 165 . The equations for the remaining values are

$$e _ { 2 } & = 1 + \frac { 4 } { 3 6 } e _ { 2 } + \frac { 2 0 } { 3 6 } e _ { 3 } + \frac { 1 2 } { 3 6 } e _ { 4 } \\ e _ { 1 } & = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 3 6 } e _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 5 } { 3 6 } e _ { 2 } + \frac { 2 0 } { 3 6 } e _ { 3 } \\ e _ { 0 } & = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 6 } e _ { 1 } + \frac { 5 } { 6 } e _ { 2 }$$

When finishing up the solving of the system above, the final result is e 0 = 70219 9240 ≈ 7 . 6 . This is just above the 7 . 35 that you get if you were to divide the solution for one die (14 . 7) by two. This is a good sanity check.

## 781 Position Guess

Company :

## Prompt:

You are given 3 IID Unif (0 , 1) random variables but can't see the values. One of the values is revealed to you at random among the three. You want to determine if the revealed value is the minimum, median, or maximum of the three values. Assuming you guess optimally, what is your probability of being correct?

## Explanation:

The optimal strategy is going to be in the form of guessing the minimum if the value is ≤ x , median if the value is between x and y , and maximum if the value if ≥ y . However, note that y = 1 -x because of the fact that if X 1 , X 2 , X 3 ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID, 1 -X 1 , 1 -X 2 , 1 -X 3 ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID as well, so the threshold for guessing the maximum would be 1 -x .

Now, we need to find p ( x ) , the probability as a function of x of guessing correctly under this rule. There are three cases to consider, which is if the value if ≤ x , between x and 1 -x , and then ≥ 1 -x . The first and third cases we can treat as the same by the same argument as above. The probability of the revealed value