the coin before flipping it, changing the probability of flipping heads such that the player's expected net profit is non-positive. The player is not aware of this re-weighing. Find the maximum probability that the dealer should choose.

## Explanation:

Let E be the expected number of times one needs to flip the coin in order to obtain two consecutive heads, and let E 1 be the expected number of further flips one needs, given that a head was flipped, in order to obtain two consecutive heads. Let x denote the probability of flipping heads.

Then, we have the equations

$$E _ { 1 } = ( 1 - x ) E +$$

$$E & = x E _ { 1 } + ( 1 - x ) E + 1 \\ E _ { 1 } & = ( 1 - x ) E + 1$$

To see why, when we have either not flipped a heads or the previous flip was a tails, we have probability x of getting a heads, and we need E 1 fl ips to win from here, and probability (1 -x ) of getting a tails, and we need E fl ips from here, as we are effectively back at the start (we add 1 , which counts the impending flip).

Similarly, when we have flipped a heads, we have probability x of getting another heads, and we need 0 flips from there, and probability (1 -x ) of getting a tails, and we need E fl ips from here.

It is routine to solve the system above, which yields E = 1 x + 1 x 2 . We want x to be chosen such that E = 30 , as that would guarantee that the player loses on average by definition.

Thus, we solve

$$\frac { 1 } { x } + \frac { 1 } { x ^ { 2 } } = 3 0 ,$$

$$x ^ { 1 } x ^ { 2 }$$

and take the positive root for contextual reasons, which gives x = 1 5

## 979 Chess Tournament II

Company : None

$$+ 1$$