$$\text {Plugging in } n = 5 \text { yields that our answer is } \binom { 1 5 } { 5 } - \binom { 1 0 } { 5 } = 2 7 5 1$$

## 571 Car Crash

Company : Citadel, DE Shaw, WorldQuant, Squarepoint Capital, Optiver

## Prompt:

When N = 10 , we compute that

N

employees are driving their individual cars on their way to work at QuantGuide. All cars are reasonably spaced apart, and they all travel at distinct speeds which are randomly assigned. When a faster car catches up to a slower car, it assumes the slower car's speed. After a very long period of time has passed, all N cars have settled into K clusters traveling at distinct speeds. What is the expected value of K when N = 10 ?

## Explanation:

We can solve this question with linearity of expectation. Let us define an indicator variable Z i as follows:

$$Z _ { i } = \begin{cases} 1 & \text {if there are no slower cars in front of } X _ { i } \\ 0 & \text {otherwise} \end{cases}$$

Consider Z N , the indicator variable corresponding to the car at the front of the pack. No matter what, Z N = 1 since there are no other cars in front of it. Next, let's consider Z i . In this case, there are N -i cars in front of car X i . Including car X i , there are N -i +1 total cars. The probability that X i is the slowest car among the total N -i +1 cars is simply 1 N -i +1 . Hence, E [ Z i ] = 1 N -i +1 . Plugging this in, we find

Then, the total number of clusters K is simply K = ∑ N i =1 Z i . By linearity of expectation, it follows that E [ K ] = ∑ N i =1 E [ Z i ] .

$$\mathbb { E } [ K ] & = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } \mathbb { E } [ Z _ { i } ] \\ & = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } \frac { 1 } { N - i + 1 } \\ & = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } + \cdots + \frac { 1 } { N }$$

$$\mathbb { E } [ K ] & = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 1 0 } \frac { 1 } { i } \\ & = \frac { 7 3 8 1 } { 2 5 2 0 }$$