## Explanation:

Let x denote the total number of people at the concert before the bus arrives. x ≡ 0 mod 12 . Then, x +50 ≡ 0 mod 25 . Since 50 ≡ 0 mod 25 , we can rewrite the previous expression as x ≡ 0 mod 25 . The minimum possible value of x satisfying these two conditions is x = 300 . x · 5 12 = 125 .

## 305 American Call Arbitrage

Company :

## Prompt:

We have 2 call options on the underlying S with initial price S 0 = 24 and strike K = 21 . One option is European and the other is American. A European option is one where you can only exercise it at expiry while an American option can be exercised any time. The European option is valued at 3 . 21 while the American option is valued at 3 . 15 . You also have access to bonds with discount rate Z 0 = 0 . 9 . The underlying pays no dividends.

What is the arbitrage? Give the answer in the form of the initial credit you receive (round to 2 decimal points). Answer -1 if there is no arbitrage.

## Explanation:

American and European calls on non-dividend paying stocks should have the same value. The rationale is follows: if you can exercise the American option and gain S -K anytime, it must be worth at least the European call for there to be no arbitrage.

We will short the European call and long the American call. If the call expires in-the-money, then both options have value S -K and we obtain 0 , but we keep our 0 . 06 . If the calls expire out-of-the-money, then both options have value 0 and we once against keep our 0 . 06 .

## 306 Paired Values I

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose we have the values 1 -6 in a bowl. We draw them without replacement, noting the order in which we selected them. We multiply the first two values together, the next two values together, and the last two values together. Lastly, we add the three products above. Find the probability the sum is odd.