## 582 Product Over Sum

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

Roll two fair standard 6 -sided dice. Find the probability that the sum of the upfaces is at least the product of the upfaces.

## Explanation:

Let X and Y be the outcomes of the two rolls. Then we want to find when X + Y ≥ XY . Solving for Y , we see that Y ≤ X X -1 . If X = 1 , then this holds for any Y . If X = 2 , then this holds for Y = 1 , 2 . However, for X &gt; 2 , this only holds when Y = 1 by plugging into the inequality. Therefore, the condition is just equivalent to when is there at least one 1 rolled or we get the outcome (2 , 2) . The probability of this is 12 36 = 1 3 by drawing out the table or using Inclusion-Exclusion and adding in the case of (2 , 2) .

## 583 Numerical Triangle

Company : Flow Traders

## Prompt:

The integers 9 integers 1 -9 are put on the sides and vertices of an equilateral triangle. Any integer put on a vertex of the triangle will count for both sides intersecting at that vertex. If all three vertices have an integer fixed on them and the sum of the integers on each side (including the vertices) is 17 , find number of distinct triangles that can be formed. Any triangle that can be formed as a rotation of another triangle is not considered distinct. Order of the integers on the sides is irrelevant as well.

## Explanation:

The sum of all the sides, including the vertices, must be 51 . The sum of the integers 1 -9 is 45 . Therefore, a sum of 6 must be on the three vertices so that they are double-counted and the sum turns out to be 51 . The only way to do this is fix 1 , 2 , and 3 on the vertices, as these are the only 3 integers summing to 6 .

Let A be the side with vertices 1 and 2 , B be the side with vertices 1 and 3 , and C be the side with vertices 2 and 3 . We have the integers 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 left. We have to assign sums of 14 , 13 , and 12 , respectively, to sides A,B, and C .

We can get a sum of 14 by either using 6 / 8 or 5 / 9 . This gives us two options for side A . Once we pick what is assigned to A , our remaining sides are fixed. Namely, if we assign 6 / 8 to A . Then we must assign