## Explanation:

Let N be the number of people needed for this to occur. Then E [ N ] = ∞ ∑ k =1 P [ N ≥ k ] by our alternative form of expectation. The event { N ≥ k } here means that none of the first k -1 people in the room share adjacent birthdays. Each birthday removes 3 possible days for the remaining people to have. Therefore, the i th person entering the room has 365 -3( i -1) = 368 -3 i possible days for their birthday to not have it overlap with any other birthday. This means that

$$\mathbb { P } [ N \geq k ] = \frac { 3 6 5 } { 3 6 5 } \cdot \frac { 3 6 2 } { 3 6 5 } \cdot \frac { 3 5 9 } { 3 6 5 } \dots \frac { 3 6 8 - 3 k } { 3 6 5 } = \frac { \prod _ { i = 1 } ^ { k } ( 3 6 8 - 3 i ) } { 3 6 5 ^ { k } }$$

Now, we sum over the support of N . There are 365 possible birthdays, and each person entering removes up to 3 days. Therefore, we know that N ≤ 122 with probability 1 , as with 122 people, there must be a pair that is adjacent. This is because if none were adjacent, the 122 people would block out 122 · 3 = 366 &gt; 365 days, which is not possible. Thus, two must overlap. Therefore, we can stop our sum at 122 . Our final expectation is

$$\mathbb { E } [ N ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 1 2 2 } \frac { \prod ^ { k } ( 3 6 8 - 3 i ) } { 3 6 5 ^ { k } } \approx 1 3 . 5$$

## 612 Comparing Flips I

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Audrey repeatedly flips a coin until she sees a pattern of HHT or HTT . What is the probability that HHT occurs before HTT ?

## Explanation:

Both HHT and HTT begin with heads, so we can ignore any pattern with leading tails. Consider the case where our sequence begins with heads. Given that the first flip is heads, each of the following four cases occurs with probability 1 4 : HHH , HHT , HTH , HTT . In the case of HHH , then Audrey will see the pattern HHT fi rst with probability 1 , since it is impossible for her to roll two tails without first seeing HHT . In the case of HHT , HHT appears first. In the case of HTT , HTT appears first. And finally, in the case of HTH , we are returned to our original state of our sequence of interest beginning with heads. Since HHT , HTT , and HHH occur with equal probability, and since HHT and HHH result in HHT appearing first, the probability that HHT appears first is 2 3 .