324 · 1 3 = 108 . Furthermore, as the X i are IID, Var ( S 324 ) = 324 Var ( X 1 ) = 324 · 1 18 = 18 . Therefore, S 324 and T 324 are each well-approximated by independent N (108 , 18) random variables. As they individually are well-approximated by independent normal random variables, their difference is also well-approximated by a normal random variable. Namely, S 324 -T 324 is approximately distributed as N (108 -108 , 18 + 18) , which is N (0 , 36) .

$$With all of this in mind, \mathbb { P } [ S _ { 3 4 } - T _ { 3 4 } > 1 0 ] & = \mathbb { P } \left [ \frac { ( S _ { 3 4 } - T _ { 3 4 } ) - 0 } { 6 } > \frac { 1 0 } { 6 } \right ] . \, \text {The HS of the interior} \\ \text {is now approximately Z } \sim N ( 0 , 1 ) \text { distributed, so the approximate probability in question is } \mathbb { P } \left [ Z > \frac { 5 } { 3 } \right ] & = \\ \mathbb { P } \left [ Z \leq - \frac { 5 } { 3 } \right ] \Phi \left ( - \frac { 5 } { 3 } \right ) . \, \text {We use symmetry in switching the direction and sign. Therefore, a = - \frac { 5 } { 3 } .}$$

## 328 Dice Upon Dice

Company : None

## Prompt:

We have a fair 6 -sided die. Roll it once and call the upface N . We then roll N fair 6 -sided dice and sum the upfaces of all N dice. Call this sum M . Lastly, we roll M fair 6 -sided dice and call the resulting sum of the upfaces S . Find E [ S ] .

## Explanation:

To find the expected total S , it may help to start by first finding E [ M ] , the average number of dice that we will be rolling in the last step. To do this, we should condition on N , the number of dice we roll in the intermediary step. If X i represents the outcome of a fair die roll, then E [ M ] = E [ N ∑ i =1 X i ] , as we roll N dice. To calculate this expected value, use Law of Total Expectation of N to get

$$\mathbb { E } [ M ] = \mathbb { E } [ \mathbb { E } [ M \ | \ N ] ] = \mathbb { E } [ \mathbb { E } \left [ X _ { 1 } + \cdots + X _ { N } \ | \ N \right ] ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ \frac { 7 } { 2 } N \right ] = \mathbb { E } [ N ] \mathbb { E } [ X _ { 1 } ] = \left ( \frac { 7 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { 2 } = \frac { 4 9 } { 4 }$$

Now, we know that S = M ∑ i =1 X i , so by the exact same process above, E [ S ] = E [ M ] E [ X 1 ] = ( 7 2 ) 3 = 343 8 .

## 329 Probability of Unfair Coin II

Company : Jane Street