## 444 Shootout

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

n

pirates all stole some gold! However, all of them are greedy, so they each are loaded with 2 cannons. Each of the n pirates has 2 cannons that they point at 2 distinct pirates among the other n -1 . What is the minimum value of n such that it is possible to have a situation where no two pirates are mutually pointing cannons at one another?

## Explanation:

With n = 2 , clearly the pirates can only point at one another. With n = 3 , there are also only 2 options for the pirates to point at. Therefore, n ≥ 4 .

Note that there are ( n 2 ) pairs of pirates when we have n pirates total. With n = 4 , there would be 6 pairs of pirates but 8 cannons that need to be pointed. Therefore, by Pigeonhole Principle, at least 2 pirates will be pointing at one another. If n = 5 , then there would be 10 pairs of pirates and 10 cannons that need to be pointed. Therefore, the way we can match is that pirate i , 1 ≤ i ≤ 5 , points at pirates ( i +1) mod 5 and ( i +2) mod 5 . This satisfies our criterion, so n = 5 is our answer.

## 445 Captive Marbles

Company : Flow Traders

## Prompt:

You are on death row presently. The judge offers you the following game: You have 50 white balls, 50 black balls, and 2 empty urns in front of you. You can distribute all 100 balls between the 2 urns in any way you please. Then, you are blindfolded and must pick one of the urns to select a ball from. If you pick a white ball, you are free. However, you are executed on the spot if you draw a black ball. Assuming optimal strategy, what is your chance of survival?

## Explanation:

If the bowls are not perfectly balanced, then we know that one of the bowls must have a larger than 0 . 5 probability of you drawing a white ball while the other has less than a 0 . 5 probability. Taking this to the extreme, the best case is that one of the bowls has probability 1 of you surviving and the other has probability 0 . 5 of you surviving, which yields a 75% chance of survival. The closest we can get to this is by putting 1