Simplifying the sums, we get the above equal to

$$\frac { 1 } { ( 2 n - 1 ) ( 2 n - 2 ) } \left [ ( 4 n - 3 ) \cdot \frac { ( 2 n - 1 ) ( 2 n ) } { 2 } - \frac { ( 2 n - 1 ) ( 2 n ) ( 4 n - 1 ) } { 6 } \right ] = \frac { ( 4 n - 3 ) n } { 2 n - 2 } - \frac { n ( 4 n - 1 ) } { 3 ( 2 n - 2 ) }$$

$$4 n ^ { 2 } - 3 n - \frac { 4 } { \bar { a } } n ^ { 2 } + \frac { n } { \bar { a } } \quad \frac { 8 } { \bar { a } } n ^ { 2 } - \frac { 8 } { \bar { a } } n$$

Expanding the numerators and combining, we get 4 n -3 n -3 n + n 3 2 n -2 = 3 n -3 n 2( n -1) = 4 3 n .

Thus, we have that E [ P ] = 4 3 n 2 n = 2 3 .

## 1123 Random Subsets

Company : None

## Prompt:

Subsets A and B are chosen uniformly at random from the collections of all subsets of a set X of cardinality 5 . What is the probability that A is a subset of B ?

## Explanation:

Each element of X is likely to be in any of the four sets: A \ B , B \ A , A ∩ B , X \ ( A ∪ B ) . In order for A to be a subset of B, A \ B must be empty. In other words, every element of X would have to be in any of the other three sets of the four sets. Thus, the probability that A is a subset of B is ( 3 4 ) 5 = 243 1024 ≈ 0 . 24 .

## 1124 Bridge Crossing

Company : SIG, Jane Street

## Prompt:

Alice, Bob, Charlie, and Daniel need to get across a river. The only way to cross the river is by an old wooden bridge, which holds at most two people at a time. Because it is dark, they can't cross the bridge without a lantern, of which they only have one. Each pair can only walk at the speed of the slower person. They need to get all of them across to the other side as quickly as possible. Alice takes 10 minutes to cross; Bob takes 5 minutes; Charlie takes 2 minutes; Daniel takes 1 minute. What is the minimum time to get all of them across to the other side?

## Explanation:

The key point is to realize that the person returning with the lantern does not have to be from the most recent pairing. Another point to realize is that Alice and Bob should go together, and not in the first crossingotherwise, one of them has to go back, which will take too long. Therefore, Charlie and Daniel should go