with target B . You have one dart to shoot at the line. Your goal is to maximize your probability of hitting one of the targets. You can choose where to center your throw on the line. If you select to center your dart at µ , the actual position your dart lands at is X ∼ N ( µ, 4) . Find the value of µ that maximizes your chances of hitting a target. If necessary, round your answer to the nearest hundredth.

## Explanation:

The key here is to note that since the targets are of extremely small radius, we can essentially treat them as points. The approximate probability we hit target A would be approximately f ( x A ) ε , where f ( x A ) is the probability density at point A . A similar statement holds for B . Since the two targets are disjoint, our goal is to maximize the sum of the probability densities. Our probability density here is dependent on what µ we select. Therefore, as a function of µ , we need to maximize

$$f ( \mu ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 \sqrt { 2 \pi } } \left ( e ^ { - \frac { ( - 1 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } + e ^ { - \frac { ( 3 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } \right )$$

The two interior terms are just the density of a N ( µ, 4) distribution at -1 and 3 . To do this, we take the derivative and set it equal to 0 . In particular,

$$f ^ { \prime } ( \mu ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 \sqrt { 2 \pi } } \left [ \frac { - 1 - \mu } { 4 } e ^ { - \frac { ( - 1 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } + \frac { 3 - \mu } { 4 } e ^ { - \frac { ( 3 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } \right ] = 0$$

In particular, note that if µ = 1 , then the two terms inside are the same but of opposite sign by symmetry, so µ = 1 is a critical point. One can verify that this is indeed a maxima, so µ = 1 is our answer. This intuitively makes sense, as the symmetry of the normal distribution should imply that the maxima would be symmetric in both points for our target.

## 489 Bowl of Cherries IV

Company : None

## Prompt:

There are four red cherries and five purple cherries in bowl A . There are six red cherries and three purple cherries in bowl B . Jenny randomly transfers a cherry from bowl A into bowl B . Then, she randomly picks a cherry from bowl B to eat. What is the probability that she eats a red cherry?

## Explanation:

Let A denote the event that the cherry that Jenny eats originates from bowl A . Let R denote the event that the cherry Jenny eats is red. After a cherry is transferred from A to B , there are 10 total cherries, one of which originates bowl A . Therefore,

$$& \mathbb { P } ( A ) = \frac { } { 1 0 } \\ \Rightarrow & \mathbb { P } ( A ^ { c } ) = \frac { 9 } { 1 0 } .$$

$$\mathbb { P } ( A ) = \frac { 1 } { 1 0 }$$