## Explanation:

If we were to count overlaps, we could simply set up an indicator variable over every window of 5 squares and applying Linearity of Expectation. This is simply 16 windows of probability 1 / 32 each, for an expected value of 1 / 2 .

To account for overlaps, let's analyze how many times we want to count consecutive chains of black squares of certain lengths. For example, if we have exactly 6 black squares in a row, we want to count this as 1 connected 5 -component, but if there are exactly 10 black squares in a row, we want to count this as 2 . In general, for exactly n black squares in a row, we want to count this as /floorleft n/ 5 /floorright connected 5 -components. This can be achieved by repeating our scheme for counting overlaps for multiples of 5 but subtracting the expected number of results we would get from considering overlapping chains of length 1 greater. Denoting C n as the expected number of chains of n consecutive black squares while counting overlaps, our answer is

$$C _ { 5 } - C _ { 6 } + C _ { 1 0 } - C _ { 1 1 } + C _ { 1 5 } - C _ { 1 6 } + C _ { 2 0 } \\ = \left ( 1 6 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 5 } } \right ) - \left ( 1 5 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 6 } } \right ) + \left ( 1 1 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 1 0 } } \right ) - \left ( 1 0 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 1 1 } } \right ) + \left ( 6 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 1 5 } } \right ) - \left ( 5 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 1 6 } } \right ) + \left ( 1 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 2 0 } } \right ) = \frac { 2 8 4 7 8 5 } { 1 0 4 8 5 7 6 } .$$

We get the term C k = 21 -k 2 k from the fact that there are 21 -k spots for a length k chain to start at and the probability of it starting at any given spot is 1 2 k . Our answer is 284785 + 1048576 = 1333361 .

## 197 Unfriendly

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

John has 8 friends. He will invite 5 to his party. However, two of his friends have beef and they refuse to attend together. How many possible combinations of guests are possible given this constraint?

## Explanation:

The easiest way to compute this is to calculate the total number of ways to invite people and then remove those that invite both. There are ( 8 5 ) = 56 total ways to select 5 people to invite. To count the number of ways with both of the friends that refuse to attend together, fix both of them among the 5 selected. We then need to select 3 more from the remaining 6 , so this yields ( 6 3 ) = 20 combinations. Therefore, we have 56 -20 = 36 ways to invite the people.