in 8 trials by Egg Drop I, so we should drop our first egg at floor 37 . If it doesn't break, then we need to increment such that if it breaks on our next trial, we can examine the remaining space between 37 and the next floor in 9 -2 = 7 drops. We can explore up to 8 · 7 2 = 28 fl oors with 7 drops, so we should place our next egg at floor 66 such that we can explore floors 38 -65 ( 28 fl oors) in the remaining 7 drops.

Continuing this pattern, when we have k drops left, we are going to increment by k ( k +1) 2 +1 fl oors. This means that the next egg after would be placed at floor 66 + 21 + 1 = 88 , the egg after at 88 + 15 + 1 = 104 , and so on. The remaining floors to drop eggs at would be 115 , 122 , 126 , and 128 . We would be able to have a building of height up to n = 129 fl oors then, as if it doesn't break at 128 , it must break at 129 based on the information in the question. We can't explore any higher than 129 due to the fact that if it breaks at some point above 129 , we would have to search between 128 and the breaking point, which takes strictly more than one egg drop. Therefore, n = 129 is our answer.

## 282 Bowl of Cherries III

Company : None

## Prompt:

Amy has 100 red cherries and 300 purple cherries in bowl A . She has 300 red cherries and 100 purple cherries in bowl B . She randomly transfers half of the cherries in bowl A into bowl B . What is the probability that a randomly picked cherry from bowl B is red?

## Explanation:

We suppose the cherry transfer has already happened. Let R denote the event that the randomly picked cherry from bowl B is red. Let A denote the event that the randomly picked cherry originated from bowl A . Then, A c denotes the event that the randomly picked cherry originated from bowl B .

We are given the following from the problem statement:

$$\mathbb { P } ( G | A ) & = \frac { 1 } { 4 } \\ \mathbb { P } ( G | A ^ { c } ) & = \frac { 3 } { 4 } \\ \mathbb { P } ( A ) & = \frac { 1 } { 3 } \\ \mathbb { P } ( A ^ { c } ) & = \frac { 2 } { 3 }$$