## 288 Counting Up

Company : None

## Prompt:

Jay and Kay play a game where Jay calls out a number between 1 and 8 to start. Afterwards, Kay gets to pick a number that is between 1 and 8 larger than the number Jay keeps. They repeatedly select in this fashion. The first player to call out the number 200 wins. There is a value that Jay can choose to start with so that if he plays optimally, he will always win. What is this value? If this is not possible, answer "-1".

## Explanation:

When Jay guesses 2, Kay can only pick the values 3 to 10 . Regardless of what Kay says, Jay should then select 11 . In this pattern, Jay will select all values in the form 9 k +2 for k an integer. The largest value in this form less than 200 is 191 . Once Jay says 191 , Kay must pick a value 192 to 199 . Regardless of what Kay says, the value will be within 8 of 200 , so Jay can say 200 on the next turn. The reason to think of this is because 200 is also in the form 9 k +2 .

## 289 Simulation Scheme I

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose we want to simulate an event with probability 1 3 . This is possible via the following scheme: Flip a fair coin twice. If the outcome is HH, we say the event happened. If the outcome is HT or TH, we say that the event did not happen. If the outcome is TT, we re-run the 2 flips experiment under the same rules. Find the expected amount of coin flips needed to simulate this event.

## Explanation:

Let N be the number of coin flips needed to simulate the event. With probability 3 4 , we determine whether or not the event happened on the first trial. If we obtain TT , which occurs with probability 1 4 , then we restart our trial process, but the number of flips we have done increases by 2 . Therefore, with probability 3 4 , it takes 2 flips to simulate, and with probability 1 4 , it takes 2 + E [ N ] flips to simulate, as we have performed 2 flips and we end up exactly where we started with the next trial. Thus, we have that E [ N ] = 3 4 · 2+ 1 4 (2 + E [ N ]) . Solving for E [ N ] yields E [ N ] = 8 3

## 290 Poor Odds

Company :