## Explanation:

Let E i be the expected time for this to happen given that our current roll is i and E be the expected value of the event we are interested in. Then

$$E = 1 + \frac { E _ { 1 } + E _ { 2 } + E _ { 3 } + E _ { 4 } + E _ { 5 } + E _ { 6 } } { 6 }$$

by Law of Total Expectation. By the symmetry of the fair die, E 1 = E 6 , E 2 = E 5 and E 3 = E 4 . Note that E 2 = E 3 because intuitively E 1 and E 6 should be larger since there is only one possible value we can roll in the next roll that will give a difference of 1 . For E 3 the valid values are 2 and 4 , whereas for E 2 it would be 1 and 3 . Using the substitution yields E = 1 + E 1 + E 2 + E 3 3 .

/negationslash

It remains to calculate equations for E 1 , E 2 , and E 3 . We know E 1 = 1 6 · 1+ 1 + E 1 6 + 1 + E 3 6 + · · · + 1 + E 6 6 =

1 + 1 3 E 1 + 1 6 E 2 + 1 3 E 3 because of our substitutions with E i = E 7 -i . Namely, we get E 1 +1 as the expected value when we roll a 1 or 6 . We get E 3 +1 as the expected value when we roll 3 or 4 . Lastly, we get E 2 +1 as the expected value when we roll 5 . If we roll a 2 , then it takes 1 roll.

Using this same logic,

$$E _ { 2 } = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 6 } E _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 6 } E _ { 3 }$$

$$E _ { 3 } = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 6 } E _ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 6 } E _ { 3 }$$

To solve for E 1 , E 2 , and E 3 , we now have three equations with three unknowns. One can check that the solution is E 1 = 70 17 , E 2 = 58 17 , and E 3 = 60 17 , so plugging this into our equation for E , the actual expected value we are interested in,

$$E = 1 + \frac { 1 8 8 } { 5 1 } = \frac { 2 3 9 } { 5 1 }$$

## 227 Student Appointment

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

You have 5 students that you want to see 3 times each over the next month. There are 15 time slots available for the students to select from. However, one of the students can't attend in the first time slot. How many different ways can these students be scheduled?