(either BG or GB). There are a total of ( n + m n ) orderings for the boys and girls. Thus

$$\mathbb { P } = \frac { 2 \left ( \begin{array} { c c } n + m - 2 \\ n - 1 \\ \end{array} \right ) } { \left ( \begin{array} { c } n + m \\ n \\ \end{array} \right ) } = \frac { 2 n m } { ( n + m ) ( n + m - 1 ) }$$

$$\text {Given this value of $\mathbb{ }P$, $\mathbb{ }E=\left(m+n-1\right)$: $\mathbb{ }P= \frac { 2 m n } { m+n }$. With 15 boys and 10 girls, we get \mathbb{ }E = \frac { 2 \cdot 1 5 \cdot 1 0 } { 1 5 + 1 0 } = 1 2$$

## 1121 Shopping Habits

Company : Two Sigma, Jane Street

## Prompt:

A researcher is investigating the temporal effect of shopping habits at the mall. She independently and randomly selects 20 weekend and 20 weekday shoppers and finds that weekend shoppers spend $ 78 on average with a standard deviation of $ 22, while weekday shoppers spend $ 67 on average with a standard deviation of $ 20. The researcher would like to test if there is sufficient evidence to claim that there is a significant difference in the average amount spent by weekend and weekday shoppers. What is the attained significance level? Round to 3 significant figures. Assume simple random sampling, variance homogeneity, and that spending is approximately normally distributed.

## Explanation:

We are testing the null hypothesis H 0 : µ 1 = µ 2 against the alternative hypothesis H a : µ 1 = µ 2 . Because neither sample size is sufficiently large, we must use a t test with 38 degrees of freedom:

Solving for S p :

Solving for t :

Because this is a two-tailed test, the attained significance level is double the p-value of a one-tailed test. Thus,

$$t = \frac { \bar { x } _ { 1 } - \bar { x } _ { 2 } } { S _ { p } \sqrt { \frac { 1 } { n _ { 1 } } + \frac { 1 } { n _ { 2 } } } } \text { where } S _ { p } = \sqrt { \frac { ( n _ { 1 } - 1 ) S _ { 1 } ^ { 2 } + ( n _ { 2 } - 1 ) S _ { 2 } ^ { 2 } } { n _ { 1 } + n _ { 2 } - 2 } } \\ S _ { p } \colon$$

$$S _ { p } = \sqrt { \frac { ( 2 0 - 1 ) \times 2 2 ^ { 2 } + ( 2 0 - 1 ) \times 2 0 ^ { 2 } } { 2 0 + 2 0 - 2 } } \approx 2 1 . 0 2 4$$

$$t = \frac { 7 8 - 6 7 } { 2 1 . 0 2 4 \sqrt { \frac { 1 } { 2 0 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 0 } } } \approx 1 . 6 5 5 \\ t , \, \text {the attained significance level is } \, \text {double}$$

/negationslash