Our bound must be

$$\theta < \tan ^ { - 1 } \left ( \sqrt { \frac { t - s } { s } } \right ) = \cos ^ { - 1 } \left ( \sqrt { \frac { s } { \bar { t } } } \right )$$

The second equality just comes from writing out the triangle with side lengths √ t -s opposite, √ s adjacent, and √ t on the hypotenuse. Plugging everything into the integral above, our new integral becomes

$$^ { - 1 } \left ( \sqrt { \frac { i } { i } } \right )$$

$$I = \frac { 1 } { 2 \pi } \int _ { 0 } ^ { \cos ^ { - 1 } ( \sqrt { \frac { s } { t } } ) } & \int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } r \exp \left ( - \frac { r ^ { 2 } } { 2 } \right ) d r d \theta \\ I = \frac { 1 } { 2 \pi } \int _ { 0 } ^ { \cos ^ { - 1 } ( \sqrt { \frac { s } { t } } ) } & - \exp \left ( - \frac { r ^ { 2 } } { 2 } \right ) \Big | _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } d \theta \\ I = \frac { 1 } { 2 \pi } \int _ { 0 } ^ { \cos ^ { - 1 } ( \sqrt { \frac { s } { t } } ) } d \theta = \frac { 1 } { 2 \pi } \cos ^ { - 1 } \left ( \sqrt { \frac { s } { t } } \right ) \\$$

Plugging in our specific values of s = 2 and t = 8 , our answer is 1 2 π cos -1 ( 1 2 ) = 1 2 π · π 3 = 1 6 .

Therefore, the probability in question for us is 1 2 -1 6 = 1 3 .

## 52 The Price of a Garden

Company :

## Prompt:

A neighbor told you he was offered a triangular piece of ground for a garden. Its sides were 55 yards, 62 yards, and 117 yards. The price was $10 per square yard. What will its cost be?

## Explanation:

From the triangle inequality, we see that 55+62 = 117 . This violates the triangle inequality, which says that any two sides must sum to a number strictly larger than the third side. This is impossible and the triangle will have 0 area, so the answer is 0 .

## 53 3 Larger Die

Company : DRW

## Prompt:

You have two fair 10 -sided dice that are colored green and yellow with values 1 -10 on each side. You roll both dice simultaneously. If they show the same value, then the game is over. If the two dice are not equal, but the yellow die shows a value at least 3 larger than the green die, you receive $1 and can roll both dice