## Prompt:

You have a fair 40 -sided and fair 60 -sided die in front of you. If you roll both, find the probability the 60 -sided die shows a strictly larger number than the 40 -sided die.

## Explanation:

The trick here is to condition on whether or not the 60 -sided die is larger than 40 or in the range 1 , 2 , . . . , 40 . In the case where it is strictly larger than 40 , the 60 -sided die wins with probability 1 . This event occurs with probability 1 3 . In the event that it is in the range 1 , 2 , . . . , 40 , then it is like we are rolling two identical dice.

Therefore, we just need to find the probability that the 60 -sided die would be the one that is strictly larger. Conditioning on the fact that we are in the range 1 , 2 , . . . , 40 , each of the two dice is equally likely to be strictly larger than the other. Therefore, we just need to subtract out the probability that they are equal and then divide by 2 . The probability they are equal is 1 40 . This is because if we fix the first die arbitrarily, there is 1 of 40 equally likely values the second die that is equal to the first. Therefore, there is a 39 40 chance they are not equal. If they are not equal, it is equally likely for either of the two to be larger, so the probability that the larger one is the 60 -sided die is 39 80 . This means the total probability is

$$\frac { 1 } { 3 } \cdot 1 + \frac { 2 } { 3 } \cdot \frac { 3 9 } { 8 0 } = \frac { 7 9 } { 1 2 0 }$$

## 110 Company Purchase I

Company :

## Prompt:

How much would you pay for a company that generates $100 of cash flow every single year, until you sell, if you have a targeted yield of 16% ?

Enter your solution rounded to the nearest whole number.

## Explanation:

To calculate how much you would pay, you simply divide your cash flows by your targeted yield.

$$S o \ \frac { \S 1 0 0 } { . 1 6 } = \S 6 2 5$$