then the remaining V -w mL of volume must be water. Hence, the difference in concentrations between the two glasses is V -w V -V -w V = 0 .

## 19 Cheese Lover II

Company :

## Prompt:

Jon loves cheese. He decides to make 100 blocks of cheese. The distribution of the weight (in grams) of each block he makes follows IID Exp ( 1 250 ) distribution. Let W i denote the weight of the i th block of cheese, and T 100 represent the total weight of the 100 blocks of cheese. Using Chebyshev's Inequality, what is an upper bound on P [ T 100 &gt; 30000] ?

## Explanation:

Chebyshev's Inequality states that for any random variable X with mean µ and variance σ 2 , P [ | X -µ | &gt; c ] ≤ σ 2 c 2 . In this case, we first need to center T 100 . Namely,

$$\mathbb { P } [ T _ { 1 0 0 } > 3 0 0 0 0 ] = \mathbb { P } [ T _ { 1 0 0 } - 2 5 0 0 0 > 5 0 0 0 ] \leq \mathbb { P } [ | T _ { 1 0 0 } - 2 5 0 0 0 | > 5 0 0 0 ] \leq \frac { \text {Var} ( T _ { 1 0 0 } ) } { 5 0 0 0 ^ { 2 } }$$

The inequality comes from the fact that { T 100 -25000 &gt; 5000 } ⊆ {| T 100 -25000 | &gt; 5000 } . By the independence of the individual blocks of cheese, Var ( T 100 ) = 100 Var ( T 100 ) = 100 · 250 2 , so we get the upper bound on the probability as 100 · 250 2 5000 2 = 1 4 .

## 20 Beer Bottles

Company :

## Prompt:

Bob is singing the traditional song, â N Bottles of Beer.â With each verse, he counts down the number of bottles. The first verse contains the lyrics â N bottles of beer,â the second verse contains the lyrics â N -1 bottles of beer,â and so on. The last verse contains the lyrics â1 bottle of beer.â Thereâs just one problem: Bob has early onset Alzheimer's. When completing any given verse, he has a tendency to forget which verse he's on. When this happens, he finishes the verse he is currently singing and then goes back to the beginning of the song (with N bottles) on the next verse.

For each verse, suppose you have a 1 N chance of forgetting which verse you are currently singing. Let K denote the expected number of verses in the song. Compute lim N →∞ K N . The answer is in the form ae -b for integers a and b . Find a 2 + b 2 .