The same is true on the put side, we should see the difference in price increase as the strike price decreases, but again, the opposite is true.

In order to take advantage of this, we can use an iron condor strategy. Usually an iron condor is used to take advantage of a neutral market, but in this case, we just care about the large mispricings in the chain. We use a put credit and a call credit spread, netting $12 -$9 of credit on both sides, with a max loss of $5 . So 3 · 2 -5 = $1 . And as all contracts control 100 shares, we get $1 · 100 = $100 .

## 594 Ferry Stops

Company : Jane Street, IMC, SIG

## Prompt:

There are an unknown amount of people on a ferry. After the first stop, 3 4 of them get off and 7 people get on. This happens again at 2 more stops. After this process, what is the minimum amount of possible people that could be aboard the ferry?

## Explanation:

Let be the amount of people we started with. After the first round, there are 1 4 x + 7 people on the ferry. After the second stop, there are

After the last stop, there are

$$\frac { 1 } { 4 } \left ( \frac { 1 } { 4 } x + 7 \right ) + 7 = \frac { 1 } { 1 6 } x + \frac { 3 5 } { 4 }$$

$$\frac { 1 } { 4 } \left ( \frac { 1 } { 1 6 } x + \frac { 3 5 } { 4 } \right ) + 7 = \frac { 1 } { 6 4 } x + \frac { 1 4 7 } { 1 6 } = \frac { x + 5 8 8 } { 6 4 }$$

people on the ferry. We must find the smallest integer x such that x + 588 is divisible by 64 . Note that 10 · 64 = 640 , which is the smallest integer larger than 588 that is divisible by 64 . Thus, there are 640 -588 = 52 people on the ferry at the start, meaning there are 10 people on at the end.

## 595 Racecar Driver

Company :

## Prompt:

Andy is a good driver. The probability that he runs any given stoplight is less than half. The probability the first stoplight Andy runs is the second one he sees is 9 100 . Find the probability that the fourth stoplight is the first one Andy runs. Assume that each stoplight Andy runs is independent of all others and that the probability is constant.