Plugging this in p k = 2 3 + 1 3 ( -1 2 ) k . Note that ( -1 2 ) k is positive for even k and negative for odd k .

Therefore, to maximize this probability, we want to maximize how positive ( -1 2 ) k is for k &gt; 0 . Namely, we just want k to be as small as possible and even, as evenness makes it positive and k being the smallest even one makes the term as large as possible over the positive integers. The smallest positive integer is k = 2 , so k = 2 will maximize p k . Namely, p 2 = 3 4 , and this is our solution.

## 131 Stack Double

Company :

## Prompt:

7

men labeled A -G play a coin flip game that starts with player A . At each turn, the player will flip a coin. If it appears heads, then the player must double the stack of each other player that plays the game, taking the money from their own stack. In other words, the payout to each of the other 6 players is the value of their current stack. Otherwise, nothing happens. The sequence HHHHHHH is observed and each of the 7 players ends up with $1 . 28 as their final stack. If x 1 , . . . , x 7 represent the amount that each player started with, find the value of 10000( x 2 1 + · · · + x 2 7 ) . For example, if player A starts with $5 . 31 , then x 1 = 5 . 31 .

## Explanation:

The trick here is to really work backwards. Note that if the player is the i th to flip the coin, his money will be doubled 7 -i times after he flips. Therefore, after obtaining his heads and paying out the sum to each of the other players, the i th player to flip must have 1 . 28 2 7 -i in the bank. Furthermore, note that there is always $1 . 28 · 7 = $8 . 96 in the game at all turns.

Starting with player A , this means player A must have 2 cents in the bank after he flips. This means that x 1 -(8 . 96 -x 1 ) = 0 . 02 , as x 1 is what he had before the flip and 8 . 96 -x 1 is what he pays out. Solving this yields x 1 = 4 . 49 . For player B , we are going to calculate what he has right before he pays out everyone. We didn't need to worry about this when calculating x 1 as there was nobody before player A .

If p 2 is what player B has right before paying out, then p 2 -(8 . 96 -p 2 ) = 0 . 04 , meaning p 2 = 4 . 50 . Since player B has his money doubled once already, this means x 2 = 2 . 25 .