## Prompt:

Find the largest value of n such that the there exists a n digit number with all unique pairwise sums of digits. For example, if n = 3 , 174 is a valid integer, since $1 + 7 \neq 1 + 4 \neq 7 + 4$.

## Explanation:

The first observation is that all the digits in this number must be unique. If there was a repeated digit, say the integer was in the form aabcde , then you could write a + b twice as two different sums with the two a . Let's attempt to create the smallest 6 -digit number with distinct sums. We note that the digits 0 , 1 , and 2 are all safe to use. We can't add 3 , since 3 + 0 = 2 + 1 , so 4 is the first value that can't be created with pairwise sums of existing integers. Then, 7 is the first value after 0 , 1 , 2 , 4 that can't be created with pairwise sums. Then, lastly, 12 would be the first value after 0 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 7 that can't be created using pairwise sums. However, 12 is not a digit, so this is impossible.

However, in the process, we have shown a 5 -digit integer does exist. Namely, 74210 is such an integer by our construction above. There are many others, but we just need existence.

## 641 Rainbow Trains

Company : None

## Prompt:

There are three train cars: a blue one, a red one, and a green one. This train has a conductor whose job is to disconnect the back train cars and put it in front. They can do this as many or as few times as they want. If the three train cars are randomly ordered, what is the probability that the conductor can rearrange it into rainbow order? (Note: Here, rainbow order means red, then green, then blue).

## Explanation:

Let us denote the colors 1, 2, and 3 such that a correct rainbow ordering of the cars is 123. There are 6! ways to order the three cars, and of those orders, only three preserve the rainbow order of the cars: 123, 231, and 312. Thus, the probability that the conductor can rearrange the order of the cars into rainbow order is:

$$\frac { 3 } { 6 ! } = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

## 642 Big Bubble I

Company : Citadel