- -r is the risk-free interest rate.
- -σ is the volatility of the underlying stock.

Using this information, and plugging in an infinity for σ , we can simplify our equation to ∞-rC = 0 , meaning the price of our option must tend to infinity as well.

Thinking about this more intuitively, under normal conditions, the greater the volatility ( ν ), the more the seller demands in order to protect against big moves against his position. When this volatility is tending to infinity, this means the seller needs near infinite protection in order to justify selling the call.

## 561 Option Dice II

Company :

## Prompt:

Pretend you have a simple options chain on the expected value of the product of two dice rolls. What would the put option at 4 be priced at in this market?

## Explanation:

First, we need to see how many combinations of dice rolls land us in profit. Listed in increasing order they are (1 , 1) , (1 , 2) , (2 , 1) , (1 , 3) , (3 , 1) . With these combinations, a roll of (1 , 1) yields a profit of 3 units ( 4 -1 = 3 ) with a 1 36 chance in doing so, a roll of (1 , 2) or (2 , 1) yields a profit of 2 units ( 4 -2 = 2 ) with a 2 36 chance in doing so, and a roll of (1 , 3) or (3 , 1) yields a profit of 1 units ( 4 -3 = 1 ) with a 2 36 chance in doing so.

Putting this all together we have 1 36 · 3 + 2 36 · 2 + 2 36 · 1 = 9 36 , showing our contract should be priced at 1 / 4 .

## 562 1900 Age

Company :

## Prompt:

A man's age at death was 1 / 29 th the year of his birth. The man lived to see his birthday in 1900 but died before the end of World War II in 1945 . How old did he turn on this birthday?