In addition, note the following:

$$\text {owing} \colon \\ \text {trace} ( e ^ { A } ) & = \text {trace} \left ( \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { k ! } A ^ { k } \right ) \\ & = \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { \infty } \text {trace} \left ( \frac { 1 } { k ! } A ^ { k } \right ) \\ & = \text {trace} \left ( \left [ \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 3 ^ { k } } { k ! } \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { 3 ^ { k } } \frac { 1 } { k ! } \right ] \right ) \\ & = e ^ { 3 } + e ^ { 6 }$$

Therefore, our answer is 3 · 6 = 18

## 26 Consecutive Pairs

Company : None

## Prompt:

Consider the set of 10 consecutive integers { 1 , 2 , . . . , 10 } . How many subsets contain exactly 1 pair of consecutive integers? For example, { 3 , 5 , 6 , 9 } contains exactly 1 pair of consecutive integers.

## Explanation:

We can avoid a really messy casework solution by thinking about the problem creatively. Suppose we have all 10 integers written out in order on paper. Our goal is to cover some of the integers with tiles such that only two tiles are side-by-side; covered integers belong in a subset of interest. Perhaps we can invent our own special tiles of different shapes that prevent some integers from being next to each other by design; then, we can simply find the number of arrangements of the tiles. Specifically, we can have a few tiles labeled U for uncovered, a few tiles labeled UC for uncovered-covered, and exactly one tile labeled UCC for uncoveredcovered-covered (this tile ensures that exactly one pair of consecutive integers is in the subset). In order to account for all cases, however, we need to have an additional slot at 0. We have the following cases:

Case 1: There are 6 total integers in the subset. In other words, there are 4 UC tiles and 1 UCC tile. There are ( 5 4 ) = 5 ways to order these 5 tiles.

Case 2: There are 5 total integers in the subset. In other words, there are 3 UC tiles, 1 UCC tile, and 2 U tiles. There are ( 6 3 , 1 , 2 ) = 60 ways to order these 6 tiles.