## 448 Exact 5 I

Company :

## Prompt:

Abd continually rolls a fair 6 -sided die until he obtains his first 6 . Compute the probability that Abd obtains the value 5 exactly four times before he stops rolling.

## Explanation:

There is a slick trick here that simplifies this problem greatly. At each roll, we only care if the roll appearing is a 5 or 6 , as the other values are not counted. Given that we have either a 5 or 6 rolled, it is equally-likely to be each one, as the original die is fair. Thus, we really only are looking for the probability of the sequence 55556 conditioned on when we have a fair die that rolls only 5 or 6 . This idea incorporates the fact that we don't consider the other values. Based on the idea that each of the two values in this conditioned die are equally-likely, the answer is just 1 2 5 = 1 32 .

## 449 Hasty Horseman

Company :

## Prompt:

A linear army of people that is 50 miles long walks 50 miles while a horseman gallops from the back of the line to the front and then gallops to the back again. How far (in miles) has the horseman travelled? The answer is in the form a ( b + √ c ) for integers a, b, and c with a maximal. Find abc .

## Explanation:

Suppose the army moves at speed 1 and the horseman moves at speed s &gt; 1 . Assume the amount of time it takes for the horseman to get from the back to the front is t 1 and then the time it takes for him to get to the back from the front is t 2 . The distance travelled by the rider is s ( t 1 + t 2 ) . The distance travelled by the army is t 1 + t 2 , so t 1 + t 2 = 50 . Therefore, we just need to find s .

Relative to the crowd, the horseman moves at a speed of s -1 in the first leg and a speed of s +1 in the second leg when returning. Therefore, t 1 ( s -1) = t 2 ( s +1) = 50 , as the horseman had to go from the back to the front in both cases relative to the line. This means that t 1 = 50 1 and t 2 = 50 +1 , so 50 = 50 1 + 50 +1 .

Multiplying by s -1 50 on both sides and rearranging yields that s satisfies s 2 -2 s -1 = 0 , so s -s s -s 2

$$s = \frac { 2 \pm \sqrt { 2 ^ { 2 } + 4 } } { 2 } = 1 \pm \sqrt { 2 }$$