## 463 Coin Priors

Company : WorldQuant

## Prompt:

We have a coin with unknown probability p of heads. We prescribe a prior distribution to p of P ∼ Beta (10 , 10) . If X 1 , . . . , X 80 are indicator random variables of the event that the i th flip is a heads, 1 ≤ i ≤ 80 , compute E [ P 80 X i = 50 ] .

$$f _ { X _ { 1 } , \cdots } = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 8 0 } 2$$

## Explanation:

The prior distribution being Beta (10 , 10) means that we can treat ourselves starting with 10 heads and 10 tails on the coin as "prior information" when calculating the distribution of p . Then, the information provided says that in the next 80 fl ips, we obtain 50 heads, meaning we also obtain 30 tails. This means that after 100 total flips, we have 60 heads and 40 tails. Therefore, our posterior distribution is Beta (60 , 40) . The mean of a Beta ( a, b ) distribution is a a + b , so the mean of our posterior distribution is 60 100 = 3 5 .

## 464 Doubly Blue

Company : Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

Three bowls are presented to you. One has two blue balls, one has two red balls, and the last has one red ball and one blue ball. You select one bowl uniformly at random and note that you drew a blue ball from it. You then draw from the same bowl again after replacing the ball you selected. Find the probability that you would draw a blue ball on this draw.

## Explanation:

Let BB represent the event of drawing two blues and B represent the event of the first ball being blue. Let U 1 represent the two blue urn, U 2 represent the two red urn, and then U 3 represent the mixed urn. We want

$$\mathbb { P } [ B B \, | \, B ] = \frac { \mathbb { P } [ B B ] } { \mathbb { P } [ B ] }$$

The equality above comes from the fact that BB ⊆ B . To calculate each, we just condition on the urn we are in. Namely,

$$\mathbb { P } [ B ] = \mathbb { P } [ B \ | \ U _ { 1 } ] \mathbb { P } [ U _ { 1 } ] + \mathbb { P } [ B \ | \ U _ { 2 } ] \mathbb { P } [ U _ { 2 } ] + \mathbb { P } [ B \ | \ U _ { 3 } ] \mathbb { P } [ U _ { 3 } ]$$

Since the original urn is selected uniformly at random, P [ U 1 ] = P [ U 2 ] = P [ U 3 ] = 3 . Furthermore, we have that P [ B | U 1 ] = 1 , P [ B | U 2 ] = 0 , and P [ B | U 3 ] = 1 2 by the proportions of blue balls in each urn. Since we

1