## 486 Racecar Speed

Company : Belvedere Trading

## Prompt:

A racecar is going around a racetrack three times. The first lap was at a speed of 100 mph, the second lap was at 150 mph, and the final lap was at a speed of 200 mph. What was the average speed (in mph) of the racecar throughout all three laps?

## Explanation:

Be careful with this problem, we can't simply take the average of the speeds of the laps because the racecar spends different amounts of time around each lap. Since we don't know the length of the racetrack, we have to create a variable for how long it takes to go around the racetrack. Say x is the amount of time it takes to go around the first lap in seconds. This means that the second lap will take x 1 . 5 seconds to go around and the third lap will take x 2 seconds to go around. That means the average of the speeds (in mph) is

$$\frac { ( 1 0 0 \cdot x + 1 5 0 \cdot \frac { x } { 1 . 5 } + 2 0 0 \cdot \frac { x } { 2 } ) } { x + \frac { x } { 1 . 5 } + \frac { x } { 2 } } = \frac { 1 8 0 0 } { 1 3 }$$

.

## 487 Ordering at Chipotle

Company : None

## Prompt:

There are 10 vegetarian toppings at Chipotle to choose from. How many distinct vegetarian bowl combinations can you make from these toppings (a bowl with no toppings does not count)?

## Explanation:

For each topping, you have the binary option to either get it or not. Thus, there are 2 10 -1 different bowl combinations ( -1 for excluding the null set).

## 488 Likely Targets I

Company : DE Shaw

## Prompt:

Two linear targets, say A and B , of radius ε &lt;&lt; 1 are placed on an infinitely long line. The targets are centered at x A = -1 and x B = 3 . In other words, target A covers the interval [1 -ε , 1 + ε ] , and similarly