## 813 Colorful Apples

Company : WorldQuant

## Prompt:

There are 4 green and 50 red apples in a basket. They are removed one-by-one, without replacement, until all 4 green ones are extracted. What is the expected number of apples that will be left in the basket?

## Explanation:

Note that the 4 green apples divide up the other 50 red apples into 5 regions. Since we have no other information about these regions, in expectation, they are equally-sized. Therefore, we would expect 10 apples per region. In particular, exactly one region comes after the last green apple, so we would expect 10 red apples to be left after drawing the last green apple.

## 814 Clarence's Bread

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

Clarence is getting this bread. Literally. Clarence has 7 small loaves and 3 large loaves of bread in a bag. He draws in his bag and pulls out a loaf of bread uniformly at random, one-by-one. If it is a small loaf, Clarence eats it. If it is a large loaf, Clarence cuts it into two small loaves. He eats one one of them and puts the other one back in the bag. Find the expected number of small loaves that Clarence eats until the bag contains only small loaves left, inclusive of the small loaf he eats as a result of the last large loaf he draws.

## Explanation:

Here, we are looking for the expected number of draws needed until Clarence grabs all 3 large loaves of bread from the bag. Since we are doing this drawing without replacement, this implies we should implement some type of "First Ace" approach. However, the issue here is that when Clarence draws a large loaf, he replaces it by another small loaf. Therefore, this isn't exactly like the paradigm above, as when you draw an Ace, it is not replaced in any way. Our new strategy is to thus consider the expected number of draws needed to see each consecutive large loaf.

First, let's find the number of loaves Clarence eats until (and including) his first selection of a large loaf. There are 3 large loaves and 7 small loaves. Therefore, we can treat the large loaves as our "dividers" and the 7 small as filler between them. The loaves split up our drawing process into 4 equally-sized components (in expectation).