## Explanation:

For the triangle to not be valid, one of X &gt; Y + Z, Y &gt; X + Z, or Z &gt; X + Y must hold. Note that these three events are also mutually disjoint, as only the largest side could be larger than the sum of the other two. By the symmetry of these regions, we can just compute the probability of one of them and then multiply by 3 .

To compute P [ Z &gt; X + Y ] , note that the plane z = x + y inside the unit cube bounds a tetrahedron above it. Namely, this tetrahedron with vertices (0 , 0 , 0) , (1 , 0 , 1) , (0 , 1 , 1) , and (0 , 0 , 1) . The volume of this tetrahedron is dfracbh 3 , with b being the area of the base and h being the height. Namely, the base is a right triangle with side lengths 1 and 1 , so b = 1 2 . Clearly h = 1 by looking at (0 , 0 , 0) to (0 , 0 , 1) . Therefore, the volume is 1 6 . As there are three such regions, the probability our triangle can't be formed is 1 2 , meaning with probability 1 2 it can be formed.

## 789 First Flip

Company : None

## Prompt:

Jay and John each flip fair coins until they obtain their first heads, respectively. Given that it takes strictly fewer flips for Jay to get his first heads than John, compute the expected number of flips Jay performed.

## Explanation:

Let X and Y respectively count the number of flips needed for Jay and John to get their first heads. We want E [ X | X &lt; Y ] . The distributions of X and Y are IID Geom ( 1 2 ) . Using the direct definition of LOTUS, we have

$$\mathbb { E } [ X \, | \, X < Y ] & = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } k \cdot \mathbb { P } [ X = k \, | \, X < Y ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } k \cdot \frac { \mathbb { P } [ X = k , X < Y ] } { \mathbb { P } [ X < Y ] } \\$$

The numerator can be written as P [ X = k, Y &gt; k ] = P [ X = k ] P [ Y &gt; k ] by independence of X and Y . The PMF of X is P [ X = k ] = 1 2 k for integers k ≥ 1 . Similarly, P [ Y &gt; k ] means that it takes more than k fl ips for John to see his first heads, meaning all of the first k fl ips are tails. This also occurs with probability 1 2 k . Lastly, we just need to compute P [ X &lt; Y ] .

Note that as X and Y are IID, they are exchangeable, so P [ X &gt; Y ] = P [ X &lt; Y ] . Furthermore, regardless of the outcome, one of the events { X = Y } , { X &gt; Y } , or { X &lt; Y } will occur and they are disjoint. Therefore,