27 th card as an ace, which has 4 options. Then, lastly, we arrange the other 25 cards in any way we want, so there are P (48 , 26) · 4 · 25! total arrangements with the 27 th card being the first ace.

Now, we need to do the same on the numerator, but we have an additional condition to satisfy. Note that the first 26 cards must not be aces (since the first should come on the 27 th turn) nor the 2 of hearts. Therefore, we are permuting 26 of the 47 remaining cards to the first 26 spots, yielding P (47 , 26) possibilities. Then, the 27 th card can be one of 4 aces. Afterwards, the next card must be fixed as the 2 of hearts. Then, there are 24 cards left, so there are 24! ways to arrange the cards after the 2 of hearts. All together, we get P (47 , 26) · 4 · 24! = 4 · 47!24! 21! . Therefore, our final probability is

$$\frac { 4 \cdot P ( 4 7 , 2 6 ) \cdot 2 4 ! } { 4 \cdot P ( 4 8 , 2 6 ) \cdot 2 5 ! } = \frac { \frac { 4 7 ! } { 2 1 ! } } { \frac { 4 8 ! } { 2 2 ! } \cdot 2 5 } = \frac { 1 } { 4 8 } \cdot \frac { 2 2 } { 2 5 } = \frac { 1 1 } { 6 0 0 }$$

## 994 Last Love

Company : None

## Prompt:

On average, how many cards do you need to flip over in a standard 52 -card deck to obtain your last heart-suited card?

## Explanation:

Similar to the First Ace problem, we can view each of the 13 cards with heart suit as dividers within our 52 -card deck. These 13 cards divide our deck into 14 regions. In expectation, by symmetry, each of these regions should have an equal amount of cards in them. There are 39 cards that are not hearts, so we would expect 39 14 cards on average for each region. Then, to get the expected position of the last heart, note that this is just the total length of the deck, 52 , but remove one of our equally-sized regions from the rightmost/bottom part of the deck. This implies our expected position is 52 -39 14 = 689 14 .

## 995 Statistical Test Review II

Company :

## Prompt:

We want to test whether or not a coin is balanced based on the number of heads, X , that appear after 36 tosses of the coin. Let's say we use the rejection region | x -18 | ≥ 4 . If p = 0 . 7 , what is the value of β to the nearest ten thousandth?