Taking the derivative on both sides, we have that x ′ = 2 3 s ′ , so knowing that x ′ = 40 , we get that s ′ = 3 2 · 40 = 60 .

## 912 RNG on RNG

Company : None

## Prompt:

You generate a uniformly random number in the interval (0 , 1) . You can generate additional random numbers as many times as you want for a fee of $0 . 02 per generation. This decision can be made with the information of all of the previous values that have been generated. Your payout is the maximum of all the numbers you generate. Under the optimal strategy, find your expected payout of this game.

## Explanation:

The optimal strategy will be in the form of a payout when you generate some value x ≥ T for a threshold T . This is because you can intuitively view each roll as a new game with some stopping threshold that we want to achieve. Therefore, our payout should a function f ( T ) that we want to maximize.

Let's compute what f ( T ) is now. If we generate a value in excess of T , the distribution of that value is Unif ( T, 1) , so the expected value of it is 1 + T 2 . However, the expected price to pay for that value is 0 . 02 · ( 1 1 -T -1 ) , as the probability that on any given trial we roll a value at least T is 1 -T , so the distribution of the number of trials needed to obtain a value at least T is Geom (1 -T ) . The mean of this distribution is 1 1 -T . The cost per trial besides the first is 0 . 02 , so this yields our equation above. Therefore, the expected payout is f ( T ) = 1 + T 2 -1 50 · ( 1 1 -T -1 ) . As we want to maximize this in T , we just take a derivative and set it equal to 0 to solve. Namely, f ′ ( T ) = 1 2 -1 50(1 -T ) 2 = 0 . Rearranging this yields (1 -T ) 2 = 1 25 = 1 5 2 , so as 0 &lt; T &lt; 1 , the solution is T = 0 . 8 . Plugging this back in, f (0 . 8) = 0 . 82 .

## 913 Heads and Tails I

Company : None

## Prompt:

On average, how many flips of a fair coin will it take until you observe heads immediately followed by tails?