## Explanation:

Define Z n = X 2 4 n -3 + X 2 4 n -2 X 4 n -1 X 4 n . Then Y n = Z 1 + · · · + Z n n . by substituting in. Therefore, as the Z i random variables are IID, Var ( Y n ) = 1 n 2 · n Var ( Z 1 ) = Var ( Z 1 ) n . We showed that E [ Z 1 ] &lt; ∞ in the first part of this question. As Var ( Z 1 ) = E [( X 2 1 + X 2 2 X 3 X 4 ) 2 ] -( E [ Z 1 ]) 2 , these quantities here are all related to the first 4 moments of the X i random variables, which we know are all finite. Therefore, Var ( Z 1 ) &lt; ∞ . This lastly implies that lim n →∞ Var ( Y n ) = 0 , as it decays like a constant divided by n .

## 690 Unique-ish Solution

Company :

## Prompt:

Let A be a 3 × n matrix for some n ≥ 2 and α = { e 1 , e 2 , e 3 } be the canonical basis of R 3 . Suppose that Ax = e 1 has no solution and Ax = e 2 has a unique solution. Find n .

## Explanation:

By the rank-nullity theorem, we know that rank ( A )+ null ( A ) = n . We know R ( A ) = R 3 , as Ax = e 1 does not have a solution. However, since Ax = e 2 does have a solution, we can conclude that N ( A ) = { 0 } . This means that n = rank ( A ) and that n ≤ 3 from the fact that rank ( A ) ≤ min { m,n } for a m × n matrix. However, we also know that n ≥ 2 from the question. If rank ( A ) = 3 , then R ( A ) = R 3 , which is a contradiction to what we previous stated, so this means n = rank ( A ) = 2 .

## 691 Digit Multiplication II

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Let A be the set of all integers whose digits multiply to 96 . Furthermore, let x and y be the minimal and maximal elements of A , respectively. What is y -x ? Note that no digit can be 1, so that A is finite.

## Explanation:

The prime factorization of 96 is 3 · 32 = 3 · 2 5 . Therefore, we need to have 5 twos and a three in our number accounted for. For the largest possible value, we should arrange the values in descending order left to right, as this would give the largest weight to digits of largest value. Therefore, our largest value is 322222 . For the smallest value, note that 2 3 = 8 and 2 · 3 = 6 . Therefore, we condense down 4 of the twos and the three into an 8 and 6 . We can't condense more, as otherwise those digits will be larger than 10 , so the smallest value that can be made from 8 , 2 , and 6 is clearly 268 . Thus, our answer is 322222 -268 = 321954 .

/negationslash