## 354 Expected Chord Length

Company : None

## Prompt:

Two points are uniformly at random selected from the circumference of the unit circle. Find the expected length of the chord (line segment) between the two points. The answer is in the form a π for some rational number a . Find a .

## Explanation:

Let θ and φ be IID Unif (0 , 2 π ) . Picking the two angles is equivalent to picking the two points uniform on the circumference. The measure of the angle between θ and φ is θ -φ . To get the length of the line segment connecting the two points, we can take a slight shortcut. The length here only depends on the distance between our points we select in terms of angle. In other words, regardless of where we end up having our points located, we can just rotate the circle so that one of them is located at (1 , 0) . Therefore, we can arbitrarily fix θ 1 = 0 . Thus, the length between θ 1 = 0 and the point at θ 2 = θ is √ (1 -cos( θ )) 2 +sin 2 ( θ ) = √ 2 √ 1 -cos( θ ) . This means that finding the expected length of the chord is equivalent to finding √ 2 E [ √ 1 -cos( θ )] , where θ ∼ Unif (0 , 2 π ) .

$$Now , \sqrt { 2 } E [ \sqrt { 1 - \cos \theta } ] & = \frac { \sqrt { 2 } } { 2 \pi } \int _ { 0 } ^ { 2 \pi } \sqrt { 1 - \cos \theta } d \theta . \text { Now, the best approach is to conjugate the interior by multi-} \\ \text {plying and dividing by } \sqrt { 1 + \cos \theta } \text { so that we get } \sqrt { 1 - \cos ^ { 2 } \theta } & = | \sin \theta | . \text { Doing this, we get } \frac { \sqrt { 2 } } { 2 \pi } \int _ { 0 } ^ { 2 \pi } \frac { | \sin \theta | } { \sqrt { 1 + \cos \theta } } d \theta .$$

Note that the region on (0 , π ) and ( π , 2 π ) , our integrand is symmetric, so we can just evaluate over one interval and double it. This means our new integral is √ 2 π ∫ π 0 sin θ √ 1 + cos θ d θ . Let u = 1 + cos θ . Then du = -sin θ d θ . Our bounds would respectively become 2 and 0 , but the negative from the du fl ips them back. Therefore, our new integral is √ 2 π ∫ 2 0 u -1 2 du . Evaluating this, we get 2 √ 2 π · √ u ∣ ∣ ∣ 2 0 = 4 π .

## 355 Rabbit Hop II

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

A rabbit starts at the floor in front of a staircase of 10 stairs. The rabbit can hop up any amount of stairs at each move, but it must make an even amount of hops to get to the top. How many distinct paths are there from the floor to the top of the staircase (i.e. to the top of the 10 th stair)?