by conditioning on W T a = ± a . We can multiply by 2 on both sides and extract the leading term of each expectation to get that

$$\left ( e ^ { a \theta } + e ^ { - a \theta } \right ) \mathbb { E } \left [ e ^ { - \theta ^ { 2 } T _ { a } / 2 } \right ] = 2 \iff \mathbb { E } \left [ e ^ { - \theta ^ { 2 } T _ { a } / 2 } \right ] = 1 / \cosh ( a \theta ) \\ \colon \quad \mathbb { C } _ { \ } \mathbb { F } [ \ = \lambda T ] _ { \ } T U \colon \quad \L \cup \L \colon \quad \L \cup \L \colon \quad \L \cup \L \colon \quad \L \cup \L \colon \quad \L \cup \L \colon \quad \L \cup \L$$

We are looking for E [ e -λ T a ] . This can be remedied by re-parameterizing and letting θ = √ 2 λ so that we get our desired quantity on the LHS. In particular, we get that E [ e -λ T a ] = 1 / cosh( a √ 2 λ ) .

$$P l u g g i n \, \lambda = 4 \, a n d \, a = \ln ( 2 ) , \, o r \, a n s w e r \, i s \, \frac { 2 } { e ^ { 4 \ln ( 2 ) } + e ^ { - 4 \ln ( 2 ) } } = \frac { 2 } { 1 6 + 1 / 1 6 } = \frac { 3 2 } { 2 5 7 } .$$

## 148 Machine Variance

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

A pizza shop consists of 25 independent workers that make pizzas. The standard deviation of the number of pizzas produced by each worker in a day is 60 . Find the standard deviation of the total number of pizzas produced by the shop per day.

## Explanation:

Let X 1 , . . . , X 25 be the number of pizzas produced by each of the workers per day. Then T = X 1 + · · · + X 25 gives the total number of pizzas produced per day by the shop. We have that Var ( T ) = 25 · Var ( X 1 ) because of the fact that each of the people are independent and have the same variance. Thus, σ T = √ Var ( T ) = 5 · σ X 1 = 5 · 60 = 300 .

## 149 Paired Pumpkins II

Company : Jane Street, SIG

## Prompt:

Dracula has 5 pumpkins. When he pairs any two pumpkins, they weigh 21 , 22 , . . . , 30 pounds. What's the sum of the weights of all the pumpkins?

## Explanation:

Let a, b, c, d, and e be the weight of each pumpkin from lightest to heaviest. If we sum all the pairwise weights, we know we will have 4 sets of a, b, c, d, and e . Thus

$$4 \cdot ( a + b + c + d + e ) = 2 1 + \cdots + 3 0 = 2 5 5$$