$$y - x < x + ( 1 - y ) \Rightarrow y < x + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \\ 1 - y < x + ( y - x ) \Rightarrow y > \frac { 1 } { 2 } \\$$

These constraints (including x &lt; y ) cover 1 8 of the sample space of x, y ∈ [0 , 1] , which can be seen visually. Note that the x &lt; y constraint only accounts for half of the possibilities since x is equally likely to be greater than or less than y . The final answer is 2 × 1 8 = 1 4 .

## 998 Rabbit Hop IV

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

A rabbit starts at the floor in front of a staircase of 10 stairs. The rabbit can hop up any amount of steps strictly larger than 1 at each movement. In particular, this means that the rabbit can't go up a one stair staircase. How many distinct paths are there from the floor to the top of the staircase (i.e. to the top of the 10 th stair)?

## Explanation:

Let h n be the number of distinct paths to the top of a n stair staircase. We can condition on the size of the first jump. The size of the first jump can be anywhere from 2 to n , inclusive. If the rabbit hops k stairs on the first step, it must make a unique path through the other n -k stairs. Hence, you could view the problem now as stair k being the floor and the top stair being n -k . This means that

$$h _ { n } = h _ { n - 2 } + h _ { n - 3 } + h _ { n - 4 } + \cdots + h _ { 1 } + h _ { 0 }$$

However, let's look at the tail term h n -3 + h n -4 + · · · + h 1 + h 0 . This is equivalent to the problem where we start on stair 1 (instead of the ground) and need to jump up strictly more than one stair at each jump. This is because stair 3 would now be the first available stair to jump on, and the rabbit can jump to any other stair at least 3 . Thus, the tail term there is just h n -1 , as starting on stair 1 , the rabbit needs a path through the other n -1 stairs to the top. Our recurrence relation is now

$$h _ { n } = h _ { n - 1 } + h _ { n - 2 }$$

Our initial conditions are that h 1 = 0 and h 2 = 1 , which can just be counted directly. We note now that this is just the Fibonacci sequence shifted by 1 index up, as F 0 = 0 and F 1 = 1 , so we can conclude that h n = F n -1 . In particular, this means that h 10 = F 9 = 34 .

## 999 2D Paths III

Company : None