## Explanation:

Our call option is currently in-the-money. So, at expiration, the call option will have ∆ = 1 if it is still in-the-money. Since the time-until-expiration is low, we would expect the delta decay to be about 0 . 26 . In other words, our delta should increase by 0 . 26 in the next 4 hours assuming the price stays the same. If we are only worried about the next 2 hours, we would expect our delta to increase by 0 . 13 . Since we are currently delta-hedged, we now gain a delta of 0 . 13 and thus we now have positive delta.

## 1094 Team Division

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

There are 12 employees at QuantGuide. 3 employees will work on the Software Engineering Team, 4 employees will work on the Content Development Team, and 5 employees will work on the Marketing team. Before assigning the employees, Michael and Nuo Wen admit that they don't want to be on the Marketing team. Under this restriction, how many ways can the employees at QuantGuide be assigned to teams?

## Explanation:

There are 10 employees available to select for Marketing, as Michael and Nuo Wen do not want to be selected for it. We choose 5 of these 10 to be assigned to Marketing, which can be done in ( 10 5 ) ways. Then, there are 7 employees remaining, of which 4 must be assigned to Content Development. The other 3 we don't select for Content Development would be assigned to Software Engineering, so there are ( 7 4 ) ways to pick the people for Content Development. By the multiplication rule, the total number of ways to assign people is

## 1095 Secrets

Company : None

## Prompt:

Consider n people P 1 , . . . , P n . P 1 receives binary information "yes" or "no" and will pass this information along to P 2 . More generally, P i will pass information along to P i +1 . However, P i will transfer the information that they hear with probability p and transfer the opposite information with probability 1 -p , where 0 &lt; p &lt; 1 , independent of all other people. Let A i be the event that P i transfers the original information (i.e. what P 1 received) to P i +1 , and let the probability of this be p i . Compute lim n →∞ p n . If this limit does not exist, answer -1 .

$$\begin{pmatrix} 1 0 \\ 5 \end{pmatrix} \begin{pmatrix} 7 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} = 8 8 2 0$$