time, these are equal, and we get that v 1 = 3 2 v 2 by the above.

This means that the time travelled beforehand is 4 · 3 2 v 2 v 2 = 6 hours. so both ships left at 7 : 00 AM. Our answer is 700 .

## 834 No Marble Missing

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

You have a box of 6 marbles of distinct colors, two of which are blue and green. You draw 4 marbles one-ata-time with replacement. Find the probability that there is at least one green and one blue marble among the 4 you selected.

## Explanation:

Let B and G represent the events that there are at least one blue and one green marble, respectively, in the 4 selected. We are looking for P [ B ∩ G ] . These events are not disjoint, so it's easier to work the complement and use inclusion-exclusion. This namely means

$$\mathbb { P } [ B \cap G ] = 1 - \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { c } \cup G ^ { c } ] = 1 - ( \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { c } ] + \mathbb { P } [ G ^ { c } ] - \mathbb { P } [ B ^ { c } \cap G ^ { c } ] )$$

We have that P [ B c ] = P [ G c ] = ( 5 6 ) 4 , as there is a 5 6 chance per trial that you don't receive a blue (or 4

green) marble. Then, P [ B c ∩ G c ] = ( 4 6 ) , as you must choose one of the other 4 colors in each of the trials. Substituting it all in, we get

$$\mathbb { P } [ B \cap G ] = 1 - 2 \cdot \frac { 6 2 5 } { 1 2 9 6 } + \frac { 2 5 6 } { 1 2 9 6 } = \frac { 1 5 1 } { 6 4 8 }$$

## 835 Fair Match

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that Andy has m 6 -sided dice and Bandy has n 8 -sided dice. If S m is the sum of the upfaces of all m of Andy's dice and T n is the sum of the upfaces of all n of Bandy's dice, find the product m ∗ n ∗ , where m ∗ and n ∗ are the smallest integer values of m and n such that P [ S m ∗ &lt; T n ∗ ] = P [ S m ∗ &gt; T n ∗ ] .