## Prompt:

$$& \quad \text {From} . \\ & \quad \text {Suppose that } X \sim \text {Geom} \left ( \frac { 1 } { 4 } \right ) . \, \text {Compute} \, \mathbb { P } [ X \leq 8 \, | \, X \geq 5 ] .$$

## Explanation:

We can interpret the information as saying that it takes us at least 5 coin flips to obtain our first heads. We want to find the probability that it takes up no more than 8 coin flips to obtain our first heads. The "at least 5 fl ips" portion means that the first 4 fl ips were all tails. Therefore, from 4 tails, find the probability the first head occurs on or before the 8 th flip. Given the memorylessness of the geometric distribution, this is really asking the probability we obtain a heads in the next 4 fl ips.

The complement is easy to compute, which is the event that we don't obtain a heads in the next 4 fl ips. The probability of all tails for the next 4 fl ips is 3 4 4 4 = 81 256 . Therefore, the probability we do get a heads in the next 4 fl ips is 1 -81 256 = 175 256 .

## 609 Defeating Dragons

Company : SIG, Citadel

## Prompt:

A 3 -headed dragon is attacking your village! You, the mightiest of knights, are tasked with taking down this dragon with your trusty sword. The dragon is defeated if you chop off all of its heads. However, this dragon uses magic and has the ability to grow heads over time! If you attack the dragon, one of three events can happen. You either chop of 2 of its heads, you chop of 1 head (which will ALWAYS grow back), or you miss entirely and the dragon grows 1 head. The probability you chop of 2 heads and miss the dragon are the same (assuming the dragon has 2 or more heads). You know that if the dragon has 5 or more heads, the dragon is too strong for you to take care of (in which case you and the rest of the villagers will perish). What is the probability you defeat the dragon?

## Explanation:

Since there are changing states to this situation, we need to employ a Markov Chain to answer this question. Each state is differentiated by the amount of heads the dragon has. Let P x be the probability you defeat the dragon when the dragon is at x heads. We already know that P 0 = 1 and P 5 = 0 , thus we need to make equations for every other state in between. Also, its important to notice you are either going to a state with two less, the same amount, or one more head. Since the probability of going down two heads is the same as one more head, the probability of each scenario happening is 1 2 as if you repeat the same state, you'll still have to either go down two heads or up one head again. Also, when the dragon is at one head, you will either stay at the same number or increase the number of heads by one, so P 1 = P 2 . Every other state equation is as follows: