is because we have a uniform density on (0 , 1) , so the probability our random variable belongs to some subinterval is just the length of that interval over the total length of our supported interval. As the probability X 1 is in the interval is 0 . 04 , the probability it is not in the interval is 0 . 96 .

All of this work above has led us to finding the smallest n such that (0 . 96) n ≤ 0 . 01 . Namely, we can solve this with logarithms to be n = ceil ( ln(0 . 01) ln(0 . 96) ) = 113 . We need to take ceilings as n must be an integer and the floor would be too small and not satisfy the condition.

## 9 River Length

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You are in a river of unknown length and velocity. You know that if you are stationary on the river, then it takes you 6 seconds for you to reach the other end. If you swim down the river at a rate of 3 feet per second, then it takes you 4 seconds to reach the other end. Find the length of the river (in feet).

## Explanation:

Let v be the velocity of the river and l be the length. Then we know that l = 6 v from the first part. Furthermore, we have that l = 4( v + 3) from the part where we swim. By equating these, we have that 6 v = 4( v +3) ⇐⇒ 2 v = 12 ⇐⇒ v = 6 . Therefore, we have that

$$l = 6 \cdot 6 = 3 6$$

## 10 Heaven 37

Company : None

## Prompt:

Let x be a 5 digit integer in the form 37 abc such that 37 abc, 37 bca, and 37 cab are all divisible by 37 . How many possible values of x are there?

## Explanation:

Note that x = 37 abc = 37000 + abc . As 37 already divides 37000 , we just need to find integers abc such that all of abc, bca, and cab are divisible by 37 . Consider abc -bca . We will show that in fact any three digit integer abc divisible by 37 will automatically have the other two forms divisible by 37 as well.