## 1111 Colorful Socks III

Company : None

## Prompt:

21

socks are in a drawer. There are 10 colors of socks in the drawer. 9 of the colors just have a pair of socks of that color. The remaining color has 3 socks of that color in the drawer. You draw out 2 socks at random. Find the probability that you obtain a matching pair.

## Explanation:

There are two cases to consider when getting a matching pair: We need to consider whether or not the color that matches is the color that has 3 replicates. This is because the probability that we draw another sock of that same color is different dependent on how many socks of that color are left. The probability that we select a sock on the first draw that just has a pair is 18 21 = 6 7 . Then, the probability that on the second draw we select a sock of that same color is 1 20 , as we assume this is a color with just the pair. This case yields a net probability of 6 7 · 1 20 = 6 140 .

The other case is that we select the color with 3 socks, which occurs with probability 1 7 on the first draw. The probability we draw another sock of that color is 2 20 , as 2 of the 20 remaining socks are of that color. This case yields a net probability of 1 7 · 2 20 = 2 140 . Adding up the cases, our total probability of drawing a pair is 8 140 = 2 35 .

## 1112 Extrinsic Value I

Company :

## Prompt:

We have an underlying S with price S 0 = 5 . You have a European call option on S with strike K = 2 , currently with value C 0 = 4 . 7 . What is the intrinsic (I) and extrinsic (E) value of the option?

Give the answer in the format of I 2 + E 2 .