a .

## Explanation:

We know that log( Y n ) = 1 n n ∑ k =1 log( X k ) . As -log( X k ) ∼ Unif (0 , 1) , which has mean 1 , we can quickly see E [log( X k )] = -1 , which is finite. Therefore, the Strong Law of Large Numbers applies. We thus get that

$$\sum _ { \log ( Y _ { n } ) = \frac { k = 1 } { n } } ^ { n } \log ( X _ { k } ) \\$$

where the convergence above is almost surely. Therefore, this means Y n converges to e -1 almost surely, so a = -1 .

## 455 Generational Wealth II

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that you generate a uniformly random number in the interval (0 , 1) . You can generate additional random numbers as many times as you want for a fee of $0 . 05 per generation. The number of additional generations must be made prior to your first number that you generate. Your payout is the maximum of all the numbers you generate. Assuming optimal strategy, what is your expected payout of this game?

## Explanation:

It is known that if X 1 , . . . , X n ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID, then if M n = max { X 1 , . . . , X n } , E [ M n ] = n n +1 = 1 -1 n +1 . In fact, one can show that M n ∼ Beta ( n, 1) , but we don't need this level of depth for this question. Namely, we want to find n that maximizes our expected payout. If we generate n numbers total, that means we have n -1 re-generations of numbers. The expected max would be 1 -1 n +1 , and we would have to pay n -1 20 to get those re-generations. Thus, our payout as a function of the total number of generations that we do is f ( n ) = 1 -1 n +1 -n -1 20 . We want maximize in n , so treat f ( n ) as continuous and take the derivative in n . Then, we want to set this equal to 0 to find the maximizer.

This means f ′ ( n ) = 1 ( n +1) 2 -1 20 = 0 , which means 20 = ( n +1) 2 . This means n = √ 20 -1 . As this is not an integer, we should test the two integers closest to this value to see what the expected value is. As 4 &lt; √ 20 &lt; 5 , we should test n = 3 and n = 4 to see what the expected value is. One can quickly see by direct substitution that f (3) = f (4) = 13 20 , so our answer is 13 20 .