## Explanation:

Given that he chooses the value k , we want to find the number of non-negative integer solutions to the equation x 1 + · · · + x k = k . This is because we can treat each commodity he puts in the gift basket as a separate "item", and we want the number of distinct combinations of different quantities of those items. By Stars and Bars, this is ( k + k -1 k -1 ) = ( 2 k -1 k -1 ) . Therefore, since each value of k is equally likely to be selected, the answer will just be 1 4 [( 1 0 ) + ( 3 1 ) + ( 5 2 ) + ( 7 3 )] = 49 4 .

## 421 Tic Tac Toe

Company : None

## Prompt:

In a standard 3 × 3 tie tac toe grid, a player wins when they have 3 of their symbol (either X or O ) in a row, column, or upon one of the two diagonals, yielding 8 possible winning paths. How many winning paths are there in 4 × 4 × 4 3D tic tac toe grid? The winning condition is that a player must have 4 of their symbol in a line, which includes diagonally and vertically down.

## Explanation:

Embed the 4 × 4 × 4 cube in the larger 6 × 6 × 6 cube. Every winning path of the 4 × 4 × 4 cube corresponds to ending at two unique ending squares on the surface of the 6 × 6 × 6 cube when extending those paths out to the larger cube. To visualize this, try this with a standard 2D 3 × 3 tic tac toe grid embedded in a 5 × 5 grid and extend out the winning paths. Therefore, for each path, we can put it in two-to-one correspondence with one of the 6 3 -4 3 = 152 cubes on the surface of the larger cube. It is a two-to-one correspondence since each path ends at two unique points on the surface of the larger cube. Therefore, the total number of paths must be 152 2 = 76 .

## 422 Combinatorial Electrician

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

An electrician sets up 12 light bulbs on a circle. Each pair of light bulbs has a wire connecting them. Each individual wire is active with probability 1 2 , independent of all other wires. A collection of 2 ≤ k ≤ 12 light bulbs is said to form a complete k -circuit if between any 2 light bulbs in the circuit, we have an active wire. Find the expected number of 4 -circuits in our electrician's arrangement of light bulbs.