find the probability. If you are to sketch out the region of interest and then the region in which | X -Y | ≥ L 3 , you will receive a region whose complement is a right triangle whose sides are of length L/ 3 . Therefore, the ratio of the areas is L 2 18 L 2 4 = 2 9 , so the probability of the complement is 2 / 9 , meaning our probability of interest is 7 / 9 .

## 962 2 Lead

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob are playing basketball. Both start from 0 points. Each game, Alice has a 30% chance of winning, independent between games. In each game, the winner gains 1 point and the loser loses 1 point. The first person to 2 points wins the set. Find the probability Alice wins the set.

## Explanation:

We can view this is a standard Gambler's Ruin problem that is non-symmetric. In this case, p = 0 . 3 , q = 1 -p = 0 . 7 , and n = 2 . The formula for the probability that Alice wins is commonly known to be

$$\frac { 1 - \left ( \frac { q } { p } \right ) ^ { n } } { 1 - \left ( \frac { q } { p } \right ) ^ { 2 n } }$$

We know that q p = 7 3 , so plugging this all in, we have that our answer is

$$\frac { 1 - \frac { 4 9 } { 9 } } { 1 - \frac { 2 4 0 1 } { 8 1 } } = \frac { 8 1 - 4 4 1 } { 8 1 - 2 4 0 1 } = \frac { 9 } { 5 8 }$$

Another way to see this without using the machinery above is to note that we just need to see a sequence of two consecutive wins from a player to win, and this occurs with probability ( 3 10 ) 2 = 9 100 for Alice and

7

10

=

2

49

100

for Bob.

As these are disjoint events in each set of two turns, the probability it occurs for

Alice first is 9 / 100 9 / 100 + 49 / 100 = 9 58 .

(

)

## 963 12-8 Showoff

Company : None