## 247 Optimal Card Pick

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

You are given a standard 52 card deck. You may select any 5 cards from the deck to be your hand as long as they form a full house ( 3 cards of one rank and 2 cards or another). Then, your opponent receives 5 random cards from the remaining 47 . Let Jack, Queen, King, and Ace have the values 11 -14 . The value of a full house is the sum of all the values of the cards that comprise it. For example, 22299 has value 24 . Find the sum of the values of all optimal full houses. We define optimal here as maximizing the probability of winning with respect to standard poker rules.

## Explanation:

Among all full houses, selecting AAA confirms that no other full house will defeat our hand. Therefore, we now want to select our paired rank as to minimize the probability of losing. In this case, we want to minimize the probability of four of a kind or a straight flush. The probability of a four of a kind is the same regardless of which two kicker cards we select, so this doesn't give us any information. However, we do want to minimize the probability of a straight flush. This means we want to select the rank that is involved in the most number of straights.

There are fewer straight that involve Aces since we already selected 3 Aces. Therefore, any rank possessing a straight involving Aces is eliminated. We see that 2 -5 and 10 -K are all eliminated with this logic. The remaining ranks would be 6 -9 , and one can check that there are equal amounts of straights involving each of these values and not Aces. Since no other full house can defeat our hand, we are indifferent to each of these 4 hands. This means we would pick any of AAA 66 , AAA 77 , AAA 88 , or AAA 99 to be our hand. The value of each hand is, respectively, 54 , 56 , 58 , and 60 , so the sum of these values is 228 .

## 248 Sum and Difference

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X,Y ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. Compute P [ X + Y ≥ 2 | X -Y | ] .

## Explanation:

For simplicity, we can restrict ourself to the case that Y ≥ X and then multiply by 2 in the end to account for the other case. When doing this, we can drop the absolute value. This makes our condition X + Y ≥ 2( Y -X ) , which is Y ≤ 3 X . However, we also know that Y ≥ X . Plotting this in the plane, we can see that the region