## 1018 Grid Filling III

Company :

## Prompt:

We place the integers 1 -9 (inclusive, no replacement) randomly on a 3 × 3 grid. What is the probability each row, column and diagonal add up to an odd number?

## Explanation:

There is only one orientation where all the rows, columns, and diagonals add up to odd numbers. This orientation has the even numbers on the corners and the odds filling the rest of the positions. There are 5! ways to order the odds and 4! ways to order the evens with 9! total orderings. Thus our answer is

$$\frac { 5 ! \cdot 4 ! } { 9 ! } = \frac { 1 } { 1 2 6 }$$

## 1019 Ramen Bowl

Company : Jane Street, Goldman Sachs, Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

There are 100 noodles in your bowl of ramen. You take the ends of two noodles uniformly at random and connect the two, putting the connected noodle back into the bowl and continuing until there are no ends left to connect. On average, how many circles will you create? Round to the nearest whole number.

## Explanation:

Let f ( n ) be the number of circles creates from n starting noodles- we are looking for E [ f (100)] . When n = 1 , it is clear that E [ f ( n )] = 1 since we connect the two ends of the only noodle. For n = 2 , there are a total of ( 4 2 ) = 6 possible combinations to connect the first two ends. Of these 6 combinations, 4 will yield a single noodle ( f (1) ) and 2 will yield a noodle and a circle ( 1 + f (1)) ). Hence,

$$E [ f ( 2 ) ] = \frac { 4 } { 6 } \times E [ f ( 1 ) ] + \frac { 2 } { 6 } \times ( 1 + E [ f ( 1 ) ] ) = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

For n = 3 , there are a total of ( 6 2 ) = 15 possible combinations to connect the first two ends. Of these 15 combinations, 12 will yield will yield two noodles ( f (2) ) and 3 will yield two noodles and a circle ( 1+ f (2)) ). Hence,

$$E [ f ( 3 ) ] = \frac { 1 2 } { 1 5 } \times E [ f ( 2 ) ] + \frac { 3 } { 1 5 } \times ( 1 + E [ f ( 2 ) ] ) = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 3 } + \frac { 1 } { 5 }$$

The pattern is now noticeable: E [ f ( n )] = 1 + 1 3 + ... + 1 2 n -1 , and thus E [ f (100)] ≈ 3 .