## 92 Cylindrical Intersection

Company : WorldQuant, Citadel

## Prompt:

Two cylinders of radius 1 intersect at right angles to one another. Furthermore, their central axes also intersect. Find the volume of the enclosed region.

## Explanation:

We can model this as two cylinders x 2 + y 2 = 1 and y 2 + z 2 = 1 . Suppose that we fix some y . We then want to find the set of points ( x, z ) , such that x 2 ≤ 1 -y 2 and z 2 ≤ 1 -y 2 . Namely, this just because -√ 1 -y 2 ≤ x, z ≤ √ 1 -y 2 . This point set is just a square of side length 2 √ 1 -y 2 , which has area 4(1 -y 2 ) . Then, we can just integrate the cross sections from y = -1 to 1 , as those are the bounds of y in our intersected region. Therefore, the answer is

$$\int _ { - 1 } ^ { 1 } 4 ( 1 - y ^ { 2 } ) d y = \frac { 1 6 } { 3 }$$

## 93 Word Shift II

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

Find the number of anagrams of BOOLAHUBBOO that have at least 2 B 's before the first O .

## Explanation:

There are 3 B and 4 O in the word above. There are ( 11 7 ) ways to pick the locations of these 7 letters in our anagram. However, there are 5 anagrams of BBBOOOO that have at least 2 of the B 's before all of the O 's. Namely, you can move one B around among the 4 O 's, yielding 5 total letters to place. You just select one of those spots to be B and those yield the 5 anagrams. Afterwards, the other 4 letters LAHU can be arranged in the remaining 4 blanks completely at will in 4! ways. Therefore, the answer is

$$5 \cdot 4 ! \cdot \left ( \begin{matrix} 1 1 \\ 7 \end{matrix} \right ) = 5 \cdot \frac { 1 1 ! } { 7 ! } = 3 9 6 0 0$$

## 94 Graph Search

Company :