swap out some of those 5 s for 4 s to get the values between. This only works if there are sufficiently many 5 s to swap out. This is a possibility when there are &lt; 5 5 s in our sum, so we know that every integer ≥ 16 is possible to be written in this form. We can now manually determine the integers that can't be written in this form are 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , 7 , and 11 . Therefore, 6 of 1000 integers can't be written in this form, so 994 can.

## 361 Strictly Better

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose Jimmy and Simon are selecting uniformly random numbers. Jimmy selects from the set { 1 , 2 , ..., 1000 } and Simon selects from { 1 , 2 , ..., 3000 } . Compute the probability that Simon chooses a strictly larger number than Jimmy

## Explanation:

$$& \text {Explanation:} \\ & \text {Let $S$ be Simon's number and $J$ be Jimmy's number.  By Law of Total Probability, we have that $\mathbb{P} [ S > \\ & J ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 1 0 0 } \mathbb { P } [ S > J \, | \, J = k ] \mathbb { P } [ J = k ] . \, We have that \mathbb { P } [ J = k ] = \frac { 1 } { 1 0 0 } \text { for each $k$ since we choose the number } \\ & \text {completely at random.  If $J = k$, then that means Simon must have a value in the set \{ k + 1 , \dots , 3 0 0 \} ,} \\ & \text {which contains 3000- (k+1)+1 = 3 0 0- k elements.  Therefore, the probability Simon picks a value greater } \\ & \text {than Jimmy's $k$ is 1 - \frac { k } { 3 0 0 } .  Therefore, we just need to evaluate \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 1 } \frac { 1 } { 1 0 0 } \left ( 1 - \frac { k } { 3 0 0 } \right ) = 1 - \frac { 1 } { 1 0 0 \cdot 3 0 0 } \cdot } \\ & \frac { 1 0 0 ( 1 0 1 ) } { 2 } = 1 - \frac { 1 0 0 1 } { 6 0 0 } = \frac { 4 9 9 9 } { 6 0 0 } .$$

## 362 Jellybean Jar I

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

A pack contains 6 red and 10 blue jellybeans. A child wants to eat 4 jellybeans and grabs into the pack to select 4 jellybeans one-by-one uniformly at random without replacement. Find the probability that the first two jellybeans are red and the last two are blue.

## Explanation:

To get two red jellybeans at the start, the child has 6 · 5 = 30 options of red jellybean. Then, for the two blues, the child has 10 · 9 = 90 options. Thus, there are 2700 ways for the child to obtain this sequence. The total number of ways to draw 4 jellybeans without replacement is 16 · 15 · 14 · 13 . Therefore, our probability is 2700 = 45 .

$$1 5 \, \frac { 1 6 \cdot 1 5 \cdot 1 4 \cdot 1 3 } { 1 6 \cdot 1 5 \cdot 1 4 \cdot 1 3 } - \frac { 7 2 8 } { 7 2 8 } .$$