Therefore, we expect 7 4 small loaves before the first large loaf. Afterwards, Clarence eats one of the two small loaves that results from the large loaf and then replaces the other in the bag. Therefore, he has eaten a total of 7 4 +1 = 11 4 loaves thus far. Additionally, there are 7 4 -1 = 3 4 fewer small loaves in the bag on average.

Now, we apply the same paradigm again but on 7 -3 4 = 25 4 small loaves and 2 large loaves. We get 3 equally-sized regions in expectation from the two large loaves, so there should be 25 12 small loaves coming before the next large loaf. Therefore, Clarence eats 25 12 +1 = 37 12 small loaves on average between the first and second large loaf selection. This brings our total thus far to 11 4 + 37 12 = 35 6 .

With one large loaf left and an (on average) 25 4 -13 12 = 31 6 small loaves left, we would expect half of those small loaves to come before the large loaf. Therefore, we expect Clarence to eat 31 12 + 1 = 43 12 more large loaves until completion.

This yields that Clarence would need to eat an expected number of 35 6 + 43 12 = 113 12 small loaves total.

## 815 Normal LOTUS I

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X and Y be jointly continuous random variables with joint PDF given by f ( x, y ) = xe -x ( y +1) I (0 , ∞ ) ( x ) I (0 , ∞ ) ( y ) . Evaluate E [ X Y +1 ] .

## Explanation:

By multivariate LOTUS, we can set up our double integral for this expectation as

$$\mathbb { E } \left [ \frac { X } { Y + 1 } \right ] = \int _ { \mathbb { R } } \int _ { \mathbb { R } } \frac { x } { y + 1 } \cdot x e ^ { - x ( y + 1 ) } I _ { ( 0 , \infty ) } ( x ) I _ { ( 0 , \infty ) } ( y ) d y d x$$