## Prompt:

You have an at-the-money call option with maturity T = 1000 years of a stock S with initial value 190 . What is the price of this option at time0 assuming Black-Scholes dynamics? Do not use a calculator.

## Explanation:

Think about this result intuitively. If T = 1000 , then the option essentially acts like the underlying itself. This result can also be verified with Black-Scholes, taking K = S 0 and t →∞ .

## 732 Surface Rotation

Company :

## Prompt:

Let 0 &lt; r &lt; 1 be fixed. Consider the curve y = √ r 2 -x 2 over the interval r 2 ≤ x ≤ r . Let S r be the surface area of the surface obtained by rotating this curve above the x -axis. Define S = sup 0 &lt;r&lt; 1 S r . S can be written as q π for a rational number q . Find q .

## Explanation:

We can write dy dx = -x √ r 2 -x 2 , so we know that

$$S _ { r } = \int _ { r ^ { 2 } } ^ { r } 2 \pi f ( x ) \sqrt { 1 + \left ( \frac { d y } { d x } \right ) ^ { 2 } } d x = \int _ { r ^ { 2 } } ^ { r } 2 \pi \sqrt { r ^ { 2 } - x ^ { 2 } } \sqrt { 1 + \frac { x ^ { 2 } } { r ^ { 2 } - x ^ { 2 } } } d x = \int _ { r ^ { 2 } } ^ { r } 2 \pi r d x = 2 \pi ( r ^ { 2 } - r ^ { 3 } )$$

To maximize S r , we just take the derivative in r , obtaining that dS r dr = 2 π (2 r -3 r 2 ) = 2 π r (2 -3 r ) , which is 0 at r = 0 , 2 / 3 . Since we want 0 &lt; r &lt; 1 , we have r ∗ = 2 / 3 is our maximizer, yielding S r ∗ = 8 27 π , so q = 8 27 .

## 733 Golden Pancakes

Company : Goldman Sachs, SIG, Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

You have three pancakes in front of you. One is toasted on both sides, one is toasted on one side, and one is not toasted at all. You hungrily choose a pancake at random and notice the top is toasted. What is the probability that the other side of your pancake is also toasted?