## Prompt:

A road of length 400 miles has two cars, say A and B , starting at opposite ends of the road. Cars A and B respectively drive towards at each at constant rates of 120 miles per hour and 60 miles per hour. A fly starts on Car B and flies towards Car A at a rate of 180 miles per hour. Then, once it hits Car A , it immediately starts to fly back to Car B at the same rate. This repeats until Car A and Car B crash into one another. Assuming the fly repeats this pattern and doesn't fly out of the way before the cars crash, how many miles will the fly travel in total?

## Explanation:

The cars move towards each other at the same rate as the fly moves between them. Therefore, the sum of the car's distances travelled is equivalent to how far the fly travels, since they move at the same rate. The fly must travel 400 miles total.

## 884 Which Sum First?

Company :

## Prompt:

When rolling two dice continuously, what's the probability that you roll a sum of 5 before you roll a sum of 2 ?

## Explanation:

To start, we must see that out of 36 possible combinations, there are 4 combimations which will yield a sum of 5 , and only 1 combination that will yield a sum of 2 . If we roll infinitely, we will assuredly stop at some point, either hitting a sum of 2 or 5 . Therefore, we can ignore all other possibilities and simply calculate the likelihood that our 4 combinations of dice rolls that sum to 5 , will come before the 1 combination of dice rolls that sum up to 2 . This is given by 4 4+1 (number of wins over total cases) yielding the probability of 4 / 5 .

## 885 Tennis Gambling

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

The rules of tennis are the following: The scores go 0 -15 -30 -40 to start. If one player has 40 points and the other has less than 40 and the player with 40 points wins the next serve, this player wins the game. If both players have 40 points, the player who wins the next serve gets advantage. If the player with advantage wins again, they win the game. Otherwise, if the advantaged player loses, the game goes back to having no advantages (40-40). Imagine Rob and Bob are in a tennis match that starts out 30 -30 . Rob has a probability 0 . 6 of winning each serve, independent between serves. Find the probability Rob wins the game.