## 1048 Distinct Date I

Company : Old Mission, Jane Street

## Prompt:

Find the next date where all of the digits, when expressed in the form MM/DD/YYYY are distinct. For example, 01 / 23 / 4567 would be a valid date. Express your answer in the form MMDDYYYY .

## Explanation:

We want to minimize the year, as that will be the biggest influence on how soon it is.

is either

0

or

1

.

If the first we already have a

0

.

M

is

If the first contains a

0

somewhere.

MMDD

portion.

0

, then the first day must be

M

is

1

1

, then either the second or

M

Therefore, these both imply that the

Since we ideally don't want to skip

1000

2

OR the day is

Note that the first

M

(

is a

0

31

OR the second

0

and either the

1

or

30

doesn't work since

M

2

years, we should put the so thus far, we have that our date is in the form

$$0 M / 1 D / 2 Y Y Y$$

it's just an objective to minimize the rest of the digits.

After this, smallest number that can be made with the remaining digits.

M

= 6

.

Then, lastly,

D

= 7

## 1049 Even Doubles

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

Andre flips a fair coin until he obtains two consecutive heads or tails for the first time. Find the probability that Andre flips the coin an even amount of times.

## Explanation:

Let E be this event and N be the number of tosses needed until two consecutive heads or tails appear. Then P [ E ] = ∞ ∑ k =1 P [ N = 2 k ] , as we want an even amount of flips needed. Let's find the term inside. The event { N = 2 k } means that the last two flips must be either HH or TT . However, once we select the last two flips, the other 2 k -2 fl ips must be fixed. Namely, they must alternate between H and T , with the starting flip based on which ending we have. For example, if { N = 4 } this correspond to the two sequences

Namely,

Y Y Y

is a

2

and the day must be used in the

2

in the year portion,

= 345

,

as that is the

Then, we want to minimize the month, so

, as that is the smallest remaining number. Our answer is therefore

$$0 6 / 1 7 / 2 3 4 5$$