## Explanation:

In order for a number to be a multiple of 15, it must be perfectly divisible by both 3 and 5. In order for the number to be divisible by 5, it must end in either a 0 or 5- thus, our number must end in a 0. In order for the number to be divisible by 3, the sum of its digits must be a multiple of 3- thus, we will add three 1's digits to the number. Hence, the smallest positive multiple of 15 whose digits consist of 1's and 0's only is 1110.

## 406 Russian Roulette III

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You're playing a game of Russian Roulette with a friend. The six-chambered revolver is loaded with two randomly placed bullets. Initially, the cylinder is spun to randomize the order of the chambers. The two of you take turns pulling the trigger until the person who fires the gun loses. Your friend goes first, and lives after the first trigger pull. You are then given the choice to either spin the barrel or not before pulling the trigger. What is the different in probability of you surviving between spinning and not spinning the barrel?

## Explanation:

If you don't spin the barrel, the probability that you survive is 3 5 , since one of the safe chambers has already been pulled by your friend. If you do spin the barrel, the probability that you survive is 4 6 , since any of the 6 chambers is possible, 2 of which are lethal. Thus, the difference in probability is:

$$\frac { 4 } { 6 } - \frac { 3 } { 5 } = \frac { 1 } { 1 5 }$$

## 407 Marketing Claims

Company : None

## Prompt:

A designer watch brand claims that at least 25 % of the public prefer their product over their competitor's. To check this claim, you sample 80 people and ask which product they prefer. With α = 0 . 05 , how small would the sample percentage need to be before the claim could be rejected? Round to the nearest hundredth. Assume simple random sampling, variance homogeneity, and that sentiment is approximately normally distributed.

## Explanation:

We are testing the null hypothesis H 0 : p = 0 . 25 against the alternative hypothesis H a : p &lt; 0 . 25 . We are given n = 80 , p = 0 . 25 , and α = 0 . 05 , and are looking for ˆ p . The z statistic when α = 0 . 05 is -1.645, which can be substituted into the appropriate formula: