## Explanation:

We can use put-call parity and take the derivative with respect to the underlying to find the relationship between call and put delta of the same strike.

$$C - P = S - K e ^ { - r T }$$

$$\frac { \partial } { \partial S } ( C - P = S - K e ^ { - r T } ) = \Delta _ { c } - \Delta _ { p } = 1$$

Plugging in ∆ c = 0 . 21 , we can see that ∆ p = -0 . 79 . This relationship will always hold for calls and puts of the same strike (assuming Black-Scholes dynamics). We can also look at this result intuitively.

If | ∆ | ≈ 1 , then we are deep in-the-money for the respective option as a higher delta means that it acts more similar to the underlying. This means that we are going to be deep out-of-the-money for the other option. As the | ∆ | of one option approaches 1 , the other will approach 0 . We can also see that long calls must have positive delta while long puts must have negative delta (in-line with intuition of what calls and puts represent).

## 1106 Identical Alpha

Company : None

## Prompt:

Let X 1 and X 2 be i.i.d. uniform distributions over [ θ , θ +1] . We are testing the null hypothesis H 0 : θ = 0 against the alternative hypothesis H a : θ &gt; 0 with two possible tests. The first test will reject H 0 if X 1 &gt; 0 . 95 and the second test will reject H 0 if X 1 + X 2 &gt; c , for some constant c . For what value of c will the two tests have the same α ?

## Explanation:

We first solve for α using the first test. We assume that the null hypothesis is true, and find the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis for the first test. In this case, X 1 is uniformly distributed (0,1) and thus:

$$\alpha = P ( X _ { 1 } > 0 . 9 5 \, | \, \theta = 0 ) = 0 . 0 5$$

We move on to the second test. We assume that the null hypothesis is true, and note that both X 1 and X 2 are uniformly distributed (0,1). By convolution, Y = X 1 + X 2 has a density function of:

$$f _ { Y } ( y ) = \begin{cases} & y \quad 0 \leq y \leq 1 \\ & 2 - y \quad 1 < y \leq 2 \\ & 0 \quad \text {otherwise} \end{cases}$$

Recalling that α = 0 . 5 , we can solve for c directly:

Taking the derivative, we get: