## Explanation:

There are ( 12 4 ) = 495 ways to pick a subset of 4 light bulbs to be in our circuit. Therefore, label the circuits 1 -495 and let X 1 , . . . , X 495 be the indicators that circuit i is a complete 4 -circuit. Then T = X 1 + · · · + X 495 gives the total number of k -circuits. By the exchangeability of the circuits (no circuit is more likely to be complete than any other) and linearity of expectation, E [ T ] = 495 E [ X 1 ] . E [ X 1 ] is just the probability that circuit 1 is 4 -complete. We know that between any 2 pairs of light bulbs, there must be an active wire, and there are 4 light bulbs here, so there are ( 4 2 ) = 6 active wires for this circuit to be complete. The probability of all 6 being active is 1 2 6 = 1 64 . Therefore, E [ T ] = 495 64 .

## 423 Collecting Toys I

Company : DRW, Jane Street, TransMarket Group, Optiver, Citadel, Morgan Stanley

## Prompt:

Every box of cereal contains one toy from a group of five distinct toys, each of which is mutually independent from the others and is equally likely to be within a given box. On average, how many boxes of cereal will you need to open in order to collect all five toys?

## Explanation:

Choosing a distinct toy on each new box follows a geometric distribution. For the first distinct toy, we know that the first box we open will be a new toy. For the second distinct toy, there is a 4 5 probability of receiving a new toy; thus, it should take 5 4 boxes on average to receive a new toy. This logic follows for the third ( 5 3 ), fourth ( 5 2 ), and fifth ( 5 1 ) toy. Hence, the total number of boxes we opened on average to collect all five toys is:

## 424 Word Shift I

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

Find the number of anagrams of BOOLAHUBBOO that have all of the B 's before the first O .

## Explanation:

There are 3 B and 4 O in the word above. There are ( 11 7 ) ways to pick the locations of these 7 letters in our anagram. However, there is only one anagram of BBBOOOO that has all of the B 's before all of the O 's.

$$1 + \frac { 5 } { 4 } + \frac { 5 } { 3 } + \frac { 5 } { 2 } + \frac { 5 } { 1 } = \frac { 1 3 7 } { 1 2 }$$