probability 1 2 · 2 3 · 1 4 + 1 2 · 1 3 · 2 4 + 1 2 · 1 3 · 2 4 = 1 4 . Similarly, if Frank makes 2 total free throws, then he makes it on either the 3rd, 4th, or 5th attempt, which occurs with probability 1 2 · 2 3 · 1 4 + 1 2 · 1 3 · 2 4 + 1 2 · 1 3 · 2 4 = 1 4 . If Frank makes 1 total free throw, then he must have missed every attempt beginning with n = 3 , which occurs with probability 1 2 · 2 3 · 3 4 = 1 4 . Following this pattern, we see that the probability of achieving any number of throws on by the n -th attempt is just 1 n -1 . So our solution for this problem is 1 99

## 825 Game Show I

Company : IMC, Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

You're on a game show and are given the choice of three doors to choose from. Behind one door is a car and behind the other two are goats. You pick one of the doors at random and announce your choice to the game show host. The game show host, knowing which prize is behind each door, opens a door that you did not choose and shows a goat after hearing your initial choice. He offers you the opportunity to either keep your original door or switch to the other closed door. What is the probability that you win the car if you switch?

## Explanation:

Let us look at the strategy in which you switch. With this strategy, you would only lose if you happen to pick the door with the car behind it on the first try, which happens with probability 1 3 . In other words, you would win whenever you happen to choose a goat on the first try, which happens with probability 2 3 .

## 826 No Rock

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You play rock, paper, scissors with an opponent, but your opponent cannot play rock. Every time you win, you receive $1 , every time you lose, you lose $1 , and every time you draw, nothing happens. Assuming optimal play, what is your expected profit per round?

## Explanation:

Note that there is no point in playing paper, as paper doesn't defeat scissors nor paper. Therefore, suppose that you play rock with probability a and scissors with probability 1 -a . Furthermore, suppose that your opponent plays paper with probability b and scissors with probability 1 -b . If P ( a, b ) represents your expected profit on this game with a and b fi xed as above, we have that

$$P ( a , b ) = a b ( - 1 ) + a ( 1 - b ) ( 1 ) + ( 1 - a ) b ( 1 ) + ( 1 - a ) ( 1 - b ) ( 0 ) = a + b - 3 a b$$