## 797 Midrange

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose X 1 , X 2 ∼ Exp (1) IID. Let O 1 and O 2 be the minimum and maximum order statistics, respectively. Find the probability that the range of X 1 and X 2 is larger than the midpoint of X 1 and X 2 .

## Explanation:

The range of X 1 and X 2 is O 2 -O 1 , as it is the larger minus the smaller. The midpoint is simply X 1 + X 2 2 . Therefore, we want P [ O 2 -O 1 &gt; X 1 + X 2 2 ] . However, the trick here is that X 1 and X 2 correspond O 1 and O 2 , as each random variable must be one of the order statistics. Therefore, this probability is the same as P [ O 2 -O 1 &gt; O 1 + O 2 2 ] . Rearranging, this is equivalent to P [ O 2 &gt; 3 O 1 ] . The joint PDF of the order statistics, by our order statistics formula, is given by f ( x, y ) = 2 e -( x + y ) I (0 , ∞ ) ( x ) I ( x, ∞ ) ( y ) . Therefore, we have that our probability is given by

$$\int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } \int _ { 3 x } ^ { \infty } 2 e ^ { - ( x + y ) } d y d x = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } 2 e ^ { - 4 x } d x = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

## 798 Maximize Head Ratio I

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Say that you are flipping a fair coin where you can stop flipping whenever you want. Your goal is to maximize the ratio between the number of heads you get with the total number of flips. The ratios are in the form a : 1 . What is the expectation of âaâ when your strategy is to target a ratio of 0 . 5 : 1 in a long run of flips but if its greater than 0 . 5 : 1 , you immediately stop there.

## Explanation:

Half of the time you will get a heads on the first flip and your ratio would be 1 : 1 . This is the best ratio you could achieve playing this game so you stop there. The other half of the time you get tails on the first flip (current ratio 0 : 1 ). However, due to the law of large numbers, you know that the more you flip, the ratio of heads to total flips will get closer and closer to 0 . 5 : 1 . Thus the expected ratio is 0 . 5 ∗ 1 + 0 . 5 ∗ 0 . 5 = 0 . 75 .

## 799 Poisson Review III

Company :