## 199 Dividing Nuggets

Company : None

## Prompt:

Mr. Garrison has four students in his elementary school math class: Eric, Stan, Kyle, and Kenny. While on a field trip, Mr. Garrison's class stops at a fast food restaurant for lunch. Mr. Garrison purchases 50 chicken nuggets in bulk for his four students to share. Stan, Kyle, and Kenny each want at least 6 nuggets, while Eric wants at least 18 nuggets. Mr. Garrison randomly partitions the 50 nuggets into four piles such that each partition has an equal chance of occurring. Each student has at least 5 nuggets after the partition. The probability that Mr. Garrison's students are all satisfied can be expressed in the form

Find min( a +2 b + c +2 d ).

## Explanation:

We wish to find P ( A | B ) , where A is the event that all four students are satisfied, and B is the event that Mr. Garrison's division of the nuggets gives each student at least 5 . First, note the following:

$$\mathbb { P } ( A | B ) & = \frac { \mathbb { P } ( A \cap B ) } { \mathbb { P } ( B ) } \\ & = \frac { \mathbb { P } ( A ) } { \mathbb { P } ( B ) }$$

Since the sample space Ω is the same for the probabilities in the numerator and the denominator, and since we are told that each partition has an equal chance of occurring, our problem can be simplified into the following two sub-problems: (1) how many ways can 50 nuggets be divided into four distinguishable groups so that there are at least 6 nuggets in the first three groups and at least 18 nuggets in the fourth group, and (2) how many ways can 50 nuggets be divided into four distinguishable groups so that there are at least 5 nuggets in each group.

Let's begin with the first sub-problem. We can utilize stars and bars. Since we have 50 total nuggets and 4 buckets, we end up with 3 bars. Let's assign 6 nuggets into each of the first three groups and 18 nuggets into the fourth group. This leaves us with 50 -3 · 6 -18 = 14 nuggets left to split into groups. There are ( 17 3 ) ways to order our 14 stars and 3 bars.

Similarly, for the second sub-problem, we can assign 5 nuggets into each of the four groups. This leaves us with 30 chicken nuggets (stars) left to be partitioned. There are ( 33 3 ) ways to order our 30 stars and 3 bars.

( a b ) ( c d )