$$P _ { 3 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } P _ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } P _ { 3 }$$

Note that in the last equation, if one of the two people not immediately next to you has the ball, one of the passes will be to someone that is also not next to you, which is why there is only a 1 3 P 2 term. Solving these equations, we see that P 1 = 5 11 which is our final answer.

## 59 Unlucky Seven II

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You are given a fair 6 -sided die and you roll it. You can either choose to keep your roll and receive the observed value in dollars. Alternatively, you are allowed to roll again, but if the sum of your two rolls is at least 7 , you pay the value equal to your first roll. If the sum of the two rolls is less than 7 , you receive the sum of the two observed values in dollars. Assuming optimal play, what is your expected payout?

## Explanation:

Condition on the value of the first roll. If we roll a 1 , we either lose $1 with probability 1 6 (if we roll a 6 on the second roll). Otherwise, we make a total of 2 , 3 , . . . , 6 , each with probability 1 6 . Therefore our expected payout if we roll again is 1 6 · ( -1) + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 6 = 19 6 &gt; 1 . This implies we should roll again if we receive a 1 .

If we roll a 2 , then with probability 1 3 we lose $2 (if we roll a 5 or 6). Otherwise, we receive 3 , 4 , 5 , or 6 with equal probability 1 6 . Therefore, the expected value upon rolling again is 1 3 · ( -2) + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 6 = 7 3 &gt; 2 . This implies we should roll. If we roll a 3 , then with probability 1 2 we lose $3 (rolling 4 or more). Otherwise, we earn 4 , 5 , or 6 each with probability 1 6 . Therefore, our expected profit upon rolling again is 1 2 · ( -3) + 4 + 5 + 6 6 = 1 &lt; 3 . Therefore, for any value 3 or more, we should not roll again. This implies that our expected value on this game with this strategy is 19 6 + 14 6 +3+4+5+6 6 = 47 12 .

## 60 3 Heads 3 Tails II

Company : SIG