## Prompt:

A drilling company must decide whether or not to drill oil at some site. The company can drill the site for a price of $350,000 paid up front. Afterwards, the company will learn if there is actually oil at this site. If there is oil, the company will generate $1,400,000 in revenue. If there is no oil, there will be no future profits. Let \(p\) be the probability there is oil at this site. What is the minimum value of \(p\) such that the company should drill if they act rationally?

## Explanation:

In the event that there is oil (which occurs with probability $p$), the company makes \$1,050,000 in profit. If there is no oil, which occurs with probability \(1 - p\), the company loses \$350,000. Therefore, we need to find the smallest \(p\) such that

\[
1050000p - 350000(1 - p) \ge 0
\]

The smallest such \(p\) can be solved to be \(1/4\).

## 557 Double Data Trouble III

Company : Two Sigma

## Prompt:

Suppose that you run linear regression on some dataset and obtain the coefficients \(\hat{y}_i = \hat{\beta}_0 + \hat{\beta}_1 x_i\). Let \(t_0\) be the \(t\)-statistic obtained when testing the null hypothesis \(H_0 : \beta_1 = 0\) against \(H_A : \beta_1 \ne 0\). Suppose that we duplicate our data and then run linear regression again on this new data set. Let \(\hat{y}_i = \hat{\beta}_0' + \hat{\beta}_1' x_i\) be the new coefficients that are obtained. If \(t_1\) is the corresponding \(t\)-statistic obtained when testing the null hypothesis \(H_1 : \beta_1' = 0\) against \(H_A : \beta_1' \ne 0\), find \(\frac{t_1^2}{t_0^2}\). If it can't be determined, enter \(-1\).

## Explanation:

From Double Data Trouble II, we know that the variance of our estimate is reduced by \(1/2\), so the standard error is reduced by \(1/\sqrt{2}\). As \(t_0 = \frac{\hat{\beta}_1}{s\{\hat{\beta}_1\}}\), we know that the estimate \(\hat{\beta}_1'\) is the same from Double Data Trouble I, and that the standard error in the denominator is \(1/\sqrt{2}\) as large for \(\hat{\beta}_1'\), we get that \(t_1 = \sqrt{2}t_0\), meaning that \(t_1^2 = 2t_0^2\).

## 558 Asset Dynamics

Company :