## Explanation:

We know that O 1 = 0 . 3 and O 4 = 0 . 9 . This means that the remaining two order statistics, as we are looking at IID Unif (0 , 1) random variables, should partition the interval (0 . 3 , 0 . 9) into 3 equal length parts. As the length of this interval is 0 . 6 , the length of each of the parts should be 0 . 2 on average. Therefore, as the third order statistic would have 2 of these pieces before it, E [ O 3 | O 4 = 0 . 9 , O 1 = 0 . 3] = 0 . 3 + 2 · 0 . 2 = 0 . 7 .

## 236 Dominated Turtle

Company : None

## Prompt:

Two turtles, Tort and Bort, are going to perform independent simple symmetric random walks on the integers starting at positions 0 and 4 , respectively. Compute the probability after 10 steps, Tort and Bort are back at their initial positions and that Tort was strictly behind Bort at all 10 steps. The answer will be in the form

$$\frac { \binom { a } { b } ^ { p } - \binom { c } { d } ^ { p } } { 2 ^ { r } }$$

where b ≤ a 2 and d ≤ c 2 . Find a 2 + b 2 + c 2 + d 2 + p 2 + r 2 .

## Explanation:

If X n is the position of Tort and Y n is the position of Bort (both at time n ), imagine plotting ( X n , Y n ) in the plane. Essentially, we would want the number of paths staying strictly below the X n = Y n line. Let N ∗ 10 , ( a,b ) → ( c,d ) be the number of paths where Tort is below Bort the entire time starting at ( a, b ) and ending at ( c, d ) after 10 steps. Let N 10 , ( a,b ) → ( c,d ) be the number of paths from ( a, b ) to ( c, d ) in 10 steps. Lastly, let N c 10 , ( a,b ) → ( c,d ) be the number of paths where Tort does catch up to Bort at some point in the 10 steps that start at ( a, b ) and end at ( c, d ) . The question here is asking for N ∗ 10 , (0 , 4) → (0 , 4) 2 20 , as each path is equally likely and there are 2 20 total paths that can be taken ( 2 10 for each of the turtles).

A quick observation is that N ∗ 10 , (0 , 4) → (0 , 4) = N 10 , (0 , 4) → (0 , 4) -N c 10 , (0 , 4) → (0 , 4) . This is really just the complementary rule. Computing N 10 , (0 , 4) → (0 , 4) is not particularly difficult, and we will do so closer to the end. However, there is no clear way to compute N c 10 , (0 , 4) → (0 , 4) right now, so we should focus on that first.

If some path is part of N 10 , (0 , 4) → (0 , 4) , that means that Tort must have caught up to Bort at some point. In other words, the X n = Y n line was crossed at some point. Therefore, the idea is to reflect the path up until that meeting point across the X n = Y n line and then keep the rest of the path untouched. In particular,