Namely, this means

$$\mathbb { E } [ S _ { t } \, | \, S _ { s } ] = S _ { s } \mathbb { E } \left [ e ^ { ( N ( t ) - N ( s ) ) \log ( c ) - \lambda ( t - s ) } \right ] = S _ { s } e ^ { - \lambda ( t - s ) } M ( \log ( c ) ) \\$$

where M ( θ ) is the MGF of a Poisson ( λ ( t -s )) random variable. We get this because of the fact that N ( t ) -N ( s ) ∼ Poisson ( λ ( t -s )) . We have that M ( θ ) = e λ ( t -s )( e θ -1) , so M (log( c )) = e λ ( t -s )( c -1) .

Therefore, E [ S t | S s ] = S s e λ ( t -s )( c -2) . To make the constant 1 , we need to make the exponent 0 regardless of s and t . This means c = 2 .

## 759 Bags of Fruit

Company : None

## Prompt:

You are given three bags of fruits. One has apples in it; one has oranges in it; one has a mix of apples and oranges. Each bag has a label on it ("apple", "orange", or "mix"). Unfortunately, your teacher tells you that all bags are mislabeled. In order to identify the bags correctly, you develop a strategic way of picking fruits from the mislabeled bags. What is the minimum number of fruits that we need to pick from the bags to correctly identify the bags?

## Explanation:

The key here is to use the fact that all bags are mislabeled. For example, the bag labeled "mix" must contain either only apples or only oranges. Note how the bags labeled "apple" and "orange" are symmetric, and thus we choose a fruit from the "mix" bag. Without loss of generality, if the fruit we get is an apple, then we know that the "mix" bag is truly the "apple" bag. We are left to identify the true "mix" and "orange" labels from the mislabeled "apple" and "orange" bags. Because we know that all bags are mislabeled, the oranges must be in the "apple" bag, not the "orange" bag, and the mixed fruit are in the "orange" bag. Note we only picked one fruit from the "mix" bag.

## 760 Minimal Shade

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider an array of white unit squares arranged in a rectangular grid with r rows of unit squares and c columns of unit squares. What is the smallest possible value of c such that, if we shade s unit squares in each column black, then there must necessarily be some row with at least t black unit squares? You should receive a function f ( r, t, s ) . Evaluate f (30 , 21 , 14) .