## Explanation:

Our number is in the form x 1 x 2 x 3 x 4 x 5 x 6 , where each x i is a digit. The only restriction we have is that x 1 ≥ 1 so it is a valid 6 -digit integer. To get a sum of 9 , we are essentially looking for the number of integer solutions to x 1 + x 2 + · · · + x 6 = 9 with x 2 , . . . , x 6 ≥ 0 , x 1 ≥ 1 . Letting x ′ 1 = x 1 -1 , we can see x 1 = x ′ 1 +1 and the restriction is that x ′ 1 ≥ 0 , so we can say we want the number of non-negative integer solutions to x ′ 1 + x 2 + · · · + x 6 = 8 . This is a classic stars-and-bars question that solves to ( 8 + 6 -1 6 -1 ) = ( 13 5 ) = 1287

## 346 Overlapping Segments

Company : Tower Research, Akuna, Virtu Financial

## Prompt:

Suppose that X 1 , X 2 , X 3 , X 4 ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. Draw two line segments: One between X 1 and X 2 and one between X 3 and X 4 . Find the probability that there is overlap between the two line segments.

## Explanation:

There is a sneaky trick here. We only care about which endpoint is paired with the lowest of the four endpoints (in terms of value). If it is the second smallest, then we get no overlap. Otherwise, we have overlap. As it is equally likely for the remaining three random variables to be ordered in any way with respect to the last three spots, the probability is just 2 3 .

## 347 Digit Match

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X be a uniformly at random selected integer from the collection of all 11 -digit integers. Find the expected amount of digits of X that are equal to 8 .

## Explanation:

Label the digits 1 -11 , with digit 1 being the leftmost digit. Let X i be the indicator of the event that the i th digit is an 8 . Then

$$T = X _ { 1 } + \dots + X _ { 1 1 }$$

gives the total number of digits that are 8 . By linearity, we have that E [ T ] = E [ X 1 ] + · · · + E [ X 11 ] . Since our digit is uniformly at random selected, we have 9 equally-likely options for the first digit and 10 equally-likely options for the remaining 10 digits. Therefore, E [ X 1 ] = 1 9 and E [ X k ] = 1 10 for 2 ≤ k ≤ 11 . Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } [ T ] = \frac { 1 } { 1 0 } \cdot 1 0 + \frac { 1 } { 9 } = \frac { 1 0 } { 9 } .$$