## Explanation:

Let R be the value of the second roll. We want E [ R ] . Clearly the values R can take depend on the value of the first roll, so we should condition on X 1 , the first roll value. Thus, E [ R ] = E [ E [ R | X 1 ]] . E [ R | X 1 ] is the expected value of a fair (6 + X 1 ) -sided die, which is (6 + X 1 ) + 1 2 = 7 + X 1 2 . Therefore, we have

$$\mathbb { E } [ R ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ \frac { 7 + X _ { 1 } } { 2 } \right ] = \frac { 7 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \mathbb { E } [ X _ { 1 } ] = \frac { 7 } { 2 } + \frac { 7 } { 4 } = \frac { 2 1 } { 4 }$$

In the last line, we use the fact that the average value of a fair die roll is 7 2 .

## 1135 Choose Your Profit

Company : None

## Prompt:

You play a game where you initially start with $1 . For each roll of a die where you don't obtain a 1 , you will multiply your current payout by α . At any point you are allowed to stop the game and take your payout. Otherwise, if you don't stop and roll a 1 , you receive no payout. Find the value of α such that your expected payout on the game is constant regardless of the number of times you roll.

## Explanation:

We want our expected payout to be constant no matter how many times we play. Therefore, as our initial payout is $1 i.e. our payout if we don't even play the game further, then we want to find α so that our expected payout is $1 regardless of the number of times we play. By rolling n times, we either have a payout of α n or 0 . The probability we get α n is just the probability we have not observed a 1 in the first n rolls. The probability of this is ( 5 6 ) n because we have probability 5 6 on each independent roll of not rolling a 1 . The term with payout 0 is irrelevant to our calculation, so we want to solve α n ( 5 6 ) n = 1 , which means α = 6 5 .

## 1136 12 Left

Company :

## Prompt:

Three players, say A,B, and C , are going to draw 5 chips each (without replacement) out of a bag of 15 chips numbers 1 -15 . The order of selection is A → B → C . Given that player A only selected even-numbered chips, find the probability that player B selected Chip 12 .