## Prompt:

Two points are uniformly at random selected between -1 and 2 . What is the probability that the origin lies between those two points?

## Explanation:

There are two possible ways for the origin not to be between the two randomly selected points: (1) both points fall within ( -1 , 0) , or (2) both points fall within (0 , 2) . Case 1 occurs with probability 1 3 · 1 3 = 1 9 , while case 2 occurs with probability 2 3 · 2 3 = 4 9 . Hence, we know that the probability of the origin not falling between the two randomly selected points is 1 9 + 4 9 = 5 9 . Taking the complement, our answer is 4 9 .

## 1092 Matching Jar Colors

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

Jar A has 3 blue and 4 red balls. Jar B has 6 blue and 4 red balls. If one ball is selected uniformly at random from each jar, what is the probability that the two selected balls match in color?

## Explanation:

We can get matching colors by either both being red or both being blue. The probability of two reds is 4 7 · 4 10 = 16 70 . The probability of two blues is 3 7 · 6 10 = 18 70 . Adding these up, we get our total probability is 16 + 18 70 = 17 35 .

## 1093 Delta Decay

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose you have a European call option with strike K = 23 on an underlying S with initial price S 0 = 25 . The ∆ of this call option is currently 0 . 74 . We delta-hedge our position such that the overall delta of our portfolio is 0 . Suppose that our call option expires in 4 hours.

Give an approximation for the ∆ of our portfolio after 2 hours, provided that the underlying stays at the same price. Round to 2 decimal points.