## Explanation:

There is symmetry in this game, as the dice are identical besides their color. Therefore, if X and Y are the sums of the upfaces of the blue and red dice, respectively, then we want P [ X &gt; Y ] . Note that by symmetry, P [ X &gt; Y ] = P [ X &lt; Y ] . The only missing case here to be exhaustive is P [ X = Y ] . Therefore, we have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ X > Y ] = \frac { 1 - \mathbb { P } [ X = Y ] } { 2 }$$

by substituting and rearranging in P [ X &gt; Y ] + P [ X = Y ] + P [ X &lt; Y ] = 1 . It now remains to evaluate P [ X = Y ] . This is just a simple case of needing to count up all of the possible sums that they could equal. In particular, P [ X = Y ] = 12 ∑ k =2 P [ X = k ] P [ Y = k ] by the independence of X and Y . Using the PMF of the sum of two dice, we evaluate this to be 1 2 +2 2 + · · · +6 2 + · · · +2 2 +1 2 36 2 = 146 1296 . Therefore,

$$\mathbb { P } [ X > Y ] = \frac { 1 - \frac { 1 4 6 } { 1 2 9 6 } } { 2 } = \frac { 5 7 5 } { 1 2 9 6 }$$

## 684 20-30 Die Split III

Company : Jane Street, DRW, Citadel

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob have fair 30 -sided and 20 -sided dice, respectively. The goal for each player is to have the largest value on their die. Alice and Bob both roll their dice. However, Bob has the option to re-roll his die in the event that he is unhappy with the outcome. He can't see Alice's die beforehand. Bob then keeps the value of the new die roll. In the event of a tie, Bob is the winner. Assuming optimal play by Bob, find the probability Alice is the winner.

## Explanation:

Let W be the event Alice wins. First, we want to find P [ W ] . Let A and B be value of Alice's roll and Bob's first roll, respectively. The key here is to condition on whether or not A ≤ 20 . Namely, this means

$$\mathbb { P } [ W ] = \mathbb { P } [ W \ | \ A \leq 2 0 ] \mathbb { P } [ A \leq 2 0 ] + \mathbb { P } [ W \ | \ A > 2 0 ] \mathbb { P } [ A > 2 0 ]$$

We can quickly see that P [ A ≤ 20] = 2 3 , as this accounts for 20 of 30 equally-likely values. If A &gt; 20 , then clearly Alice wins regardless of what Bob obtains, so P [ W | A &gt; 20] = 1 .

If A ≤ 20 , then we are really rolling 2 independent 20 -sided fair dice. Namely, to compute P [ W | A ≤ 20] , we see that the probability of a tie is 1 20 , as there are 20 values they can agree upon out of 20 2 = 400