## 965 Cats and Mice

Company :

## Prompt:

A number of cats (more than one) killed between 999919 mice, and every cat killed an equal number of mice (more than one). Each cat killed more mice than there were cats. How many cats were there?

## Explanation:

We need to find 2 numbers such that ab = 999919 and b &gt; a . It turns out that 999919 is a semiprime whose proper divisors are 991 and 1009

## 966 Random Tic Tac Toe

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

We toss 3 pebbles at a tic-tac-toe board at the same time. Each of those pebbles will land in one of the nine squares of the board with uniform probability. What is the probability that the pebbles will land in such a way that they form a tic-tac-toe (all pebbles in a row either vertically, horizontally, or diagonally)?

## Explanation:

There are 8 ways to forma a tic-tac-toe (3 vertically, 3 horizontally, 2 diagonally). Including the permutations, we multiply by 3! . Thus the total ways is 8 ∗ 3! = 48 . Now we have to see how many different ways the pebbles can land on the board.

The first scenario is that they all land in distinct squares. Since there are 9 total squares and we pick 3 to be where the pebbles land, the total combinations are ( 9 3 ) = 84 . Each of these combinations has 3! permutations in their order. Thus 84 ∗ 3! = 504 .

Now we have to calculate the number of ways the pebbles could land in two distinct squares. Similar to the three square scenario, we choose two squares from the nine. Including permutations, the total number of arrangements with two squares is ( 9 2 ) ∗ 3! = 216 .