## Explanation:

Mathematically, a put is max( K -S T , 0) , where K is the strike. K essentially acts as a constant cashflow. Since this is a cashflow and interest rates are at play, we must discount this. As a result, the quantity K -S T becomes smaller as K decreases due to the discounting. As a result, the price of a put option decreases.

Another way to think about this is that call and put options are dependent on the forward price. The forward price increases if rates increase, and so the price of call options will increase while those of put options will decrease.

## 806 Points on a Circle I

Company : None

## Prompt:

Three points are selected randomly at uniform around a circle. What is the probability that the three points form an obtuse triangle?

## Explanation:

Denote the center of a unit circle with point O . Select a point A and a point B such that ∠ AOB ∈ [0 , π ] (this selection is always possible). Denote ∠ AOB with θ . Notice that θ ∼ Unif ([0 , π ]) .

Now, consider an arbitrary value of θ . We must determine the region where point C may be located such that /triangle ABC is obtuse. Note that /triangle ABC is obtuse if A,B,C all fall in the same semicircle. There is a region of circumference 2 π -θ where C may be placed such that A,B,C all fall in the same semicircle. So, if we are given the value of θ , then /triangle ABC is obtuse with probability 2 π -θ 2 π . By the law of total probability, we have (written somewhat informally):

$$\text {newhat} \, \text {informally} \colon \\ \mathbb { P } ( \triangle A B C \, \text {obtuse} ) & = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \pi } \mathbb { P } ( \triangle A B C \, \text {obtuse} \, | \theta ) \, \mathbb { P } ( \theta ) \, \text {d} \theta \\ & = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \pi } \frac { 2 \pi - \theta } { 2 \pi } \cdot \frac { 1 } { \pi } \, d \theta \\ & = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \pi } \frac { 1 } { \pi } - \frac { \theta } { 2 \pi ^ { 2 } } \, d \theta \\ & = \frac { 3 } { 4 }$$

## 807 Longest Rope I

Company : Two Sigma, Akuna, Citadel, Jane Street, Five Rings