Therefore, the year must start with a 1 . To maximize the year, we can just fix the rest as the three largest integers. Namely, 987 , so our year is 1987 . Since the year starts with 1 , the month must start with 0 . Then, we choose the largest month integer remaining, which is 6 . Then, we must pick the largest possible day among the integers remaining. We can see that 25 is the largest possible day, as anything starting with 3 is not possible. Therefore, our date is

$$0 6 / 2 5 / 1 9 8 7$$

## 1053 First and Last Heads

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

A fair coin is flipped 5 times. Find the probability that the number of heads in the first 3 fl ips is equal to the number of heads in the last 2 fl ips.

## Explanation:

We condition based on the number of heads in both segments. The only way to get 0 heads in both segments is TTTTT , so that yields 1 outcome. To get one head in both segments, there are 3 initial sequences in the first 3 fl ips that have 1 head (namely, HTT,THT, and TTH ) and 2 sequences in the last two flips that have 1 head ( HT and TH ). This yields 3 · 2 = 6 outcomes here. Lastly, to get two heads in each segment, there are 3 initial sequences in the first 3 fl ips that have 2 heads (namely, HHT,HTH, and THH ). There is only one sequence with 2 heads in the last two flips. Therefore, this yields 3 · 1 = 3 sequences. Adding these all up, we get 1 + 6 + 3 = 10 sequences where this is satisfied. There are 2 5 = 32 total sequences of 5 fl ips, so our answer is

## 1054 Left Corner

Company :

## Prompt:

A pawn on an 8 × 8 chess board starts in the top left corner. In each move, the pawn is allowed to move one square in any direction, including diagonally, as long as it stays on the board. Each legal move on a given turn has equal probability of being selected. Find the probability that in exactly two movements the pawn is back in the top left corner.

## Explanation:

In the top left, it can move to 3 spots. Two of those spots will be along the edge of the board, which will have 5 valid spots to move from there. One is a central spot on the board, which has 8 valid spots to move.

$$\frac { 1 0 } { 3 2 } = \frac { 5 } { 1 6 }$$