The common estimator for σ 2 is s 2 , our sample variance, given by s 2 { ˆ β 0 } = 1 n -1 ∑( y i -ˆ β 0 x i ) 2 = SSR n -1 . In simple linear regression, we have that SSR = (1 -ρ 2 ) ∑ y 2 i (again since y i data is mean 0 ). Lastly, as usual with OLS, we know that ˆ β 0 = Cov ( X,Y ) Var ( X ) = ρ · σ Y σ X . Once again, we estimate σ X and σ Y by s x = √ 1 n -1 ∑ x 2 i and s y = √ 1 n -1 ∑ y 2 i . When we take the ratio, the coefficients out front cancel.

$$P lugging this all back in to our t-statistic, t = \rho \cdot \frac { \sqrt { \sum y _ { i } ^ { 2 } } } { \sqrt { x _ { i } ^ { 2 } } } \frac { 1 } { \sqrt { \text {Var} ( \hat { \beta } _ { 0 } ) } } = \rho \cdot \frac { \sqrt { \sum y _ { i } ^ { 2 } } } { \sqrt { \sum x _ { i } ^ { 2 } } } \cdot \frac { \sqrt { \sum x _ { i } ^ { 2 } } } { ( 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } ) \sum y _ { i } ^ { 2 } } \sqrt { n - 1 } = \\ \frac { \rho } { \sqrt { 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } } } \sqrt { n - 1 } .$$

Plugging in ρ = 1 10 √ 3 , we get that the t -statistic is t n = √ n -1 299 . Therefore, we must find the smallest n such that t n &gt; 1 . 645 . We use the 95 th percentile value because we are doing a one-sided test. Solving this yields n ≥ 299 · (1 . 645) 2 +1 = 810 . 1 . Since n must be an integer, n = 811 would the smallest value.

## 736 Ant Collision I

Company :

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob raised their own ants. Alice has 40 ants, while Bob has 80 ants. Alice and Bob stand at opposite ends of an infinitesimally wide string and let all of their ants crawl on the string. Whenever one ant runs into another ant, they both bounce back and change direction. Each of the ants can only move forward. Let x be the number of ants that reach Alice and y be the number of ants that reach Bob. Find x -y .

## Explanation:

Imagine that whenever two ants collide they change bodies. This is a reasonable assumption because of the fact in each collision, both ants will move in the direction of the other ant after the collision. Therefore, it is as if no collision happened at all. This means that 80 ants reach Alice and 40 ants reach Bob. Therefore, 80 -40 = 40 is our answer.

## 737 Bond Practice VI

Company :