( Team 1 , 0 . 95)

( Team 2 , 0 . 72)

( Team 3 , 0 . 35)

( Team 4 , 0 . 03)

The group works as follows: 2 teams are guaranteed to make it out. Find the arbitrage. You are allowed to long or short contracts.

interest rates are

0

, so

Z

0

You are also allowed to long or short bonds, which pay

= 1

.

Give the answer in the form of the initial credit you will receive in the arbitrage.

## Explanation:

teams are guaranteed to make it out of the group.

also an initial price of sum is

2

.

2

2

If we long every contract, we expect a payout of

). You can imagine this as the density being split amongst the

When we add the values of all contracts, we see a value of are overvalued.

To capitalize on the arbitrage, we long the undervalued item and short the overvalued item. We can short

1

unit of every contract and then long meaning we receive

0

.

05

## 917 Card Diff

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You have all the clubs from a standard deck ( 13 cards) and you can choose 2 from the deck and get paid the product of their values. All face cards are considered to have value 0 and Ace is considered to have value 1 . You can pay $1 to reveal the difference of any two cards you choose. You can exercise this "difference" option as many times as you would like. Under a rational strategy, what is the maximum guaranteed profit you can achieve?

## Explanation:

The claim here is that one can always locate the places of the payout would be

9

·

10

-

11 = 79

.

as a credit.

2

units of the bond. This gives us

2

-

0

95

.

-

0

72

.

-

0

35

.

-

0

03 =

.

0

-

05

.

,

2

05

.

&gt;

2

4

at expiry.

Assume

2

(and teams such that the

. This means that the contracts

1

9

and

10

within

11

card draws. Therefore, the