## 284 Median Roll

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Mike rolls three fair 6-sided dice at once. What is the expected median value of the dice?

## Explanation:

By the symmetry of the dice, the median value being 3 and 4 are equally likely. Similarly, 2 and 5 are equally likely, as are 1 and 6 . As the mean value of each median pair is 7 2 , this implies that the median is also 7 2 .

## 285 You Got Mail

Company :

## Prompt:

A letter is going to be sent to one of three mailboxes uniformly at random. These mailboxes are labelled 1 -3 . If the mail ends up in mailbox i , then there is a i 3 probability that the mail is actually read. Given that you checked Mailbox 1 and didn't read any letter, find the probability that the mail ended up in Mailbox 1 .

## Explanation:

The probability that the mail makes it to Mailbox 1 is 1 3 . There is also a 2 3 chance the mail isn't read given it is in Mailbox 1 by the question. Therefore, the probability of the mail being in Mailbox 1 and not noticing it is 2 9 .

The two ways you didn't read the mail is that it ended up in one of the other mailboxes or it ended up in Mailbox 1 but you didn't notice it. We calculated the latter already, and the former is just 2 3 , so the answer

$$i s \, \frac { \frac { 2 } { 9 } } { \frac { 2 } { 9 } + \frac { 2 } { 3 } } = \frac { 1 } { 4 }$$

## 286 Bowl of Cherries I

Company : Arrowstreet Capital

## Prompt:

Amy has a bowl of 5 red cherries and 8 purple cherries. She takes out cherries one at a time until there are no red cherries left. What is the probability that the bowl is empty?