## 433 Minimum Variance Portfolio

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose you purchase a 1 share of stock A . A share of stock A has mean return 2 and return variation 4 . You also want to purchase stock B . 1 share of B has mean return 3 and return variation 9 . Additionally, the returns of A and B are correlated with coefficient -1 / 2 . How many shares of stock B should you purchase so that the variance of your portfolio consisting of both A and B is minimum?

## Explanation:

We are going to solve this with more general values the means and variances.

Let R A and R B be the returns of stock A and B , respectively. We have that if you purchase k shares of stock B , then the return of your portfolio is given by R A + kR B . We have that

$$V a r ( R _ { A } + k R _ { B } ) = V a r ( R _ { A } ) + V a r ( k R _ { B } ) + 2 C o v ( R _ { A } , k R _ { B } )$$

By properties of variance and covariance, the previous expression is equal to σ 2 A + k 2 σ 2 B +2 k Cov ( R A , R B ) .

From the definition of correlation, Cov ( R A , R B ) = ρσ A σ B . Thus, we have that the variance (as a function of k ) is k 2 σ 2 B + 2 ρσ A σ b k + σ 2 A . Note that this is a quadratic function in k , so to find the minimum k , we need to just use the handy formula -b 2 a to find the minimum. This means that k = -2 ρσ A σ B 2 σ 2 B = -ρ σ A σ B is our minimum. Note that if ρ &gt; 0 , then this implies we should short B .

$$\text {Plugging in our specific values of } \sigma _ { A } = 2 , \sigma _ { B } = 3 , \text { and } \rho = - 1 / 2 , \text { we get that } k = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \frac { 2 } { 3 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

## 434 Matching Socks I

Company : None

## Prompt:

Your drawer contains 2 red socks, 4 yellow socks, and 5 blue socks. In a rush, you randomly grab socks from the drawer. What is the minimum number of socks you need to grab to guarantee a pair of socks of the same color?