## Explanation:

The hour interval can be broken down into two disjoint thirty-minute interval such that the probability p of observing any accident is uniform. The probability that we do not observe an accident within a thirty-minute interval is 1 -p . Furthermore, the probability that we do not observe any accidents within two independent thirty-minute intervals (or an hour) can be written as:

$$( 1 - p ) ^ { 2 } = 1 - \frac { 3 } { 4 } \Rightarrow p = 1 / 2$$

## 279 Writing to Recruiters

Company : DRW

## Prompt:

You have N letters for recruiters at N fi rms. You forgot which recruiter works for which firm so you randomly assign each letter to a firm (only one letter going to each firm). What is the expected number of letters going to their correct firm?

## Explanation:

This is a classic indicator variable problem. Let E k be the indicator variable for each k letter where it is 1 if the letter goes to the right firm and 0 if it doesnât. Then T = N ∑ i =1 E i gives the total number of letters that go to the correct firm. By linearity of expectation and the fact that the random variables are exchangeable, E [ T ] = N E [ E 1 ] . The probability for each of these letters to go to their correct firm is 1 N . Thus,

$$\mathbb { E } [ T ] = N \cdot \frac { 1 } { N } = 1$$

You can double check this is the case for small values N , such as 2 and 3 .

## 280 Chess Tournament III

Company :

## Prompt:

A chess tournament has 2 n players, each with a distinct rating. Assume that the player with the higher rating always wins against a lower rated opponent with probability 0 . 5 &lt; p &lt; 1 . The winner proceeds to the subsequent round. Since the tournament's structure resembles that of a knockout bracket, n total rounds are played, including the final. The probability that the second-highest rated player defeats the highest rated player in the final round can be expressed as a function of n and p . Determine this function evaluated at n = 4 , p = 3 4 .