To compute µ 1 , note that rolling either a 1 or 2 will make the game finish in 1 turn. Otherwise, we are back to the "nothing" state. Therefore,

$$\mu _ { 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } \cdot 1 + \frac { 2 } { 3 } \cdot ( 1 + \mu ) = 1 + \frac { 2 } { 3 } \mu$$

Substituting this into the first equation, we get that

$$\mu = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot \left ( 1 + \frac { 2 } { 3 } \mu \right ) + \frac { 2 } { 3 } \mu$$

Rearranging this yields 2 9 µ = 7 6 , so µ = 21 4 .

## 103 Field Imperfection

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that a field for the World Cup is being constructed. The field is intended to have dimensions of 300 feet long by 200 feet wide. However, due to human imperfection, the error in the length measurement is a RV X ∼ Unif ( -15 , 15) and the error in the width measurement is a RV Y ∼ Unif ( -5 , 15) , independent of X . Hence, the true dimensions are 300 + X and 200 + Y . Find the expected area of the field.

## Explanation:

The measurement of the length is given by 300 + X , where X is the error, and the measurement of the width is given by 200 + Y , where Y is the error. The area then is (300 + X )(200 + Y ) , so we want E [(300 + X )(200 + Y )] = E [60000 + 300 Y +200 X + XY ] . We have that E [ X ] = 0 and E [ Y ] = 5 from properties of uniform random variables. By the linearity of expectation and independence of X and Y , the above is just 60000 + 300 E [ Y ] + 200 E [ X ] + E [ X ] E [ Y ] . The last two terms vanish as E [ X ] = 0 . The second term is 1500 , so the expected area is 61500 .

## 104 Brussels Sprouts

Company : None

## Prompt:

Your mother plays a game with you. She allows you to roll a fair dice and if the value is at least three, you will eat that many Brussels sprouts and the game ends. Else, you will eat that many Brussels sprouts and roll again until the game ends. On average, how many Brussels sprouts will you eat?