one, we will be able to create change potentially by 50 cents with 2 quarters. We want to ensure that doesn't happen. Next, we want to load in as many dimes as possible. We can put in 9 dimes and still have no change for a dollar since the closest we can get is 99 cents (7 dimes, 1 quarter, 4 pennies). We can't add in any nickels, as then we would be able to make a dollar with 1 quarter, 7 dimes, and a nickel. Therefore, our maximal value is 0 . 25 + 9 · 0 . 10 + 4 · 0 . 01 = 1 . 19 .

## 527 Multiple Divisors I

Company : None

## Prompt:

Find the probability that a randomly selected integer from the set of positive divisors of 10 99 is divisible by 10 80 .

## Explanation:

The prime factorization of 10 99 is 2 99 · 5 99 = (2 80 · 5 80 ) · 2 19 · 5 19 . The term in parentheses is 10 80 . As we know that there are 100 options of exponent for our divisor for each of 2 and 5 (can choose an exponent between 0 and 99 , inclusive of both), there must be 100 2 = 10000 divisors total that we can select from. Of those, we need those with the exponent for both 2 and 5 to be at least 80 . By the previous rewriting of our expression, this just means that we must choose an exponent for both 2 and 5 that are between 80 and 99 , inclusive of both. This gives us 20 options for each, implying that there are 20 2 = 400 total divisors satisfying this. Putting it all together, our probability must therefore be 400 10000 = 1 25 .

## 528 Infinite Maturity

Company :

## Prompt:

What's the value of a vanilla European call option of infinite maturity, and a given strike, volatility, interest rate, and spot price?

## Explanation:

Quite simply, a European option can only be exercised at expiration. Given our call option has infinite maturity (meaning it will never expire), you can never exercise it, leading to it being

Note: There is another line of thinking here. Although you are never able to realize its value, this option still technically does hold value (as shown through the Black-Scholes model), the problem is you are never