## Explanation:

We can plot the payout and see that the maximum payout is 4 when S T &lt; 20 . So, the best upper-bound at timeT is 4 . By no arbitrage, this relationship must hold to time t = 0 . Since this is a constant, this acts like a bond and we should apply the discount factor. This gives us our answer of V 0 = 4 ∗ 0 . 9 = 3 . 6 .

This then gives us another no-arbitrage relationship for puts of different strikes:

$$P ( K _ { 2 } ) - P ( K _ { 1 } ) \leq ( K _ { 2 } - K _ { 1 } ) B$$

where K 2 &gt; K 1 and B is the discount factor.

## 686 Gambling Addiction

Company :

## Prompt:

Gabe has a crippling gambling addiction. As such, he plays a game where the winning number on the n th game, where n ≥ 1 , is uniformly at random selected from the set { 1 , 2 , . . . , n + 2 } . Let W be the random variable representing how many times Gabe plays before he wins. Find E [ W ] . If the answer is infinite, answer -1 .

## Explanation:

We use the fact that for non-negative integer-valued random variables, E [ X ] = ∞ ∑ k =1 P [ X ≥ k ] . Let's compute P [ W ≥ k ] for a fixed k . This is equivalent to saying that Gabe loses each of his first k -1 games.

On turn k , k ≥ 1 , there is a probability of 1 k +2 of winning (we select uniformly at random from k +2 items, and only 1 will be selected). Thus, round k , there is a probability of 1 -1 k +2 = k +1 k +2 of not winning. Therefore, the probability Gabe loses each of his first k -1 rounds is

$$\mathbb { P } [ W \geq k ] = \frac { 2 } { 3 } \cdot \frac { 3 } { 4 } \cdot \frac { 4 } { 5 } \cdot \dots \cdot \frac { k - 1 } { k } \cdot \frac { k } { k + 1 } = \frac { 2 } { k + 1 }$$

Plugging this into our expectation formula, we see that

$$\mathbb { E } [ W ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \mathbb { P } [ W \geq k ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 2 } { k + 1 } = \infty$$

We know this sum diverges as it is asymptotic to the harmonic sum. Therefore, our answer to this question is -1 .