your friend can select that yields positive expected payout for them. The probabilities of selecting each of the values for you would be p 1 , p 2 , and 1 -p 1 -p 2 . For a numerical demonstration, say p 1 = 1 / 5 and p 2 = 1 / 2 . Then your friend should always select the value that maximizes their probability of winning. In this case, they should select 100 , as the expected payout would be

$$( - 1 ) \cdot \frac { 1 } { 5 } + ( 1 ) \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } + ( 0 ) \cdot \frac { 3 } { 1 0 } > 0$$

Namely, if x is the value assigned to probability max { p 1 , p 2 , 1 -p 1 -p 2 } , then your friend should always select the value that beats x . Therefore, to eliminate this opportunity, you should select a uniform distribution among 98 -100 .

This means X ∼ DiscreteUnif ( { 98 , 99 , 100 } ) , so E [ X ] = 99 and Var ( X ) = (98 -99) 2 +(99 -99) 2 +(100 -99) 2 3 = 2 3 .

## 133 Private Documents

Company :

## Prompt:

A quant firm wants to protect their IP. The firm only has 7 employees. They want to ensure that a safe can be opened only when at least 4 of them want to open it. Therefore, they put some locks on the safe. All of the locks must be unlocked to open the safe. Let n be the minimum number of locks needed to achieve this goal. Let m be the number of keys each of the 7 people carries. Find 10 m + n .

## Explanation:

For each group of 3 people, there must be a lock none of them can access. Otherwise, a group of 3 would be able to unlock all of them. Therefore, there must be ( 7 3 ) = 35 locks minimum, as that is the number of subsets of 3 people that can be made. This means n = 35 . Then, each lock has 4 keys, as every lock has a subset of 3 that can't access it, so there are 35 · 4 = 140 total keys, meaning that each person must receive 20 keys. Therefore, we have that m = 20 . Our answer is 10 · 20 + 35 = 235 .

## 134 7 Multiple

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

You and your friend play a game in which you take turns rolling a fair 6 -sided die and keep a running tally of the sum of the upfaces obtained in each roll. The winner of the game is the person who most recently