## Explanation:

When rewording it to think about it as a 11 -sided die, and we are trying to figure out how many rolls it will take to see all 11 sides at least once, it is easy to see that this is a variation of the coupon collector's problem.

The time until the first result appears is 1 as it takes one step to start somewhere. After that, once again we are guaranteed to visit another node in 1 step, so we add another one. The random time until a third (different) result appears is geometrically distributed with parameter of success 9 10 , hence a mean 10 9 (as the mean of a geometrically distributed random variable is the inverse of its parameter). After that, the random time until a fourth (different) result appears is geometrically distributed with parameter of success 8 10 , hence a mean of 10 8 . And so on, until the random time of appearance of the last and tenth node, which is geometrically distributed with parameter of success 1 10 , hence with mean 10 1 .

We now know the mean time to see the first through last numbers pop up, so our total expectation will be summing all of the individual expectations up.

$$\sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 1 0 } \frac { 1 0 } { k } + 1 \approx 3 0 . 2 9$$

This yields our solution of 30 .

## 187 Lucky Genie

Company : None

## Prompt:

A genie rolls a fair 6 -sided die. You can bet on the outcome of the die being even or odd. For every $4 you bet on the die being even, you will receive $6 back if correct. Similarly, for every $6 you bet on the die being odd, you will receive $9 back. Playing optimally, how much should you bet on this game?

## Explanation:

Suppose we bet x units on even and y on odd. Then our total bet is 4 x +6 y . Our expected profit from this game would be 0 . 5 · 6 x +0 . 5 · 9 y = 3 x +4 . 5 y = 3 4 · (4 x +6 y ) . Therefore, our expected value in return is 3 4 of our bet, so we should not play this game with an expected value of 0.

## 188 Penny Stack

Company : Jane Street