## Explanation:

We know that the PMFs of the value of a roll of a fair 6 -sided and 8 -sided dice are symmetric about their respective means 3 . 5 and 4 . 5 . Therefore, the PMFs of the sums of independent 6 -sided and 8 -sided dice are symmetric about their means. Namely, S m has a symmetric PMF about 3 . 5 m and T n has a symmetric PMF about 4 . 5 n . Therefore, if we can find values of m and n such that the means are the same, both sums will be symmetric about the means, and the condition in the question will be satisfied. This means we must find the smallest m and n satisfying 3 . 5 m = 4 . 5 n . These would be the same as the smallest m and n such that 7 m = 9 n by multiplication of 2 on both sides. As 7 and 9 are relatively prime, the smallest integer solution is m ∗ = 9 and n ∗ = 7 , so m ∗ n ∗ = 63 .

## 836 Equivariant

Company : TransMarket Group

## Prompt:

Let X and Y be any random variables with finite mean and variance 16 . Find Corr ( X + Y, X -Y ) .

## Explanation:

We have that Cov ( X + Y, X -Y ) = Var ( X ) -Cov ( X,Y )+ Cov ( X,Y ) -Var ( Y ) by bilinearity. Since we suppose that X and Y have the same variance, all terms cancel and the RHS is 0 , so this means Corr ( X + Y, X -Y ) = 0 .

## 837 Matching Socks II

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

6 distinct pairs of socks are in a drawer. You're in a hurry to pack for a trip, so you draw out 8 socks uniformly at random from the drawer. Find the expected number of pairs of socks that remain in the drawer.

## Explanation:

Since we want to count the expected number of pairs that remain in the drawer, it makes sense to use indicators and linearity of expected here to count. Label the pairs of socks 1 -6 and let I i be the indicator that pair i is still in the drawer after drawing out the pairs of socks. Then T = I 1 + · · · + I 6 gives the total number of pairs of socks remaining in the drawer. By linearity of expectation and the exchangeability of the sock pairs, E [ T ] = 6 E [ I 1 ] .