Consider 16 blanks corresponds to the largest to smallest random variables. We know that X 1 goes in the first spot because it is known to be the maximum of the first 16 random variables. Thus, there are 15 random variables left to arrange to the other 15 blanks, and we want the probability X 16 goes in the last spot. Since the other 15 random variables are exchangeable, it is no more likely that X 16 goes in the last spot than any of X 2 , . . . , X 15 , so the probability is just 1 15 . The key thing to notice in this question is that the ordering of random variables not in the subset of random variables we consider is irrelevant by the independence of the random variables.

## 915 Ronaldo's House

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Cristiano Ronaldo lives in Portugal in a house numbered 122577 . A hurricane hits Portugal, and two random numbers on Ronaldo's house fall off. After the hurricane passes, he sees the numbers on the ground, but has amnesia, so he doesn't remember what his house number is. Therefore, he places the two numbers up in the two empty spots uniformly at random. Find the probability Ronaldo creates the number 122577 again.

## Explanation:

The key here is to see that if either 22 or 77 falls off, then no matter how Ronaldo places up the numbers, he will get back the correct house number. If any other pair falls off, there is a 1 / 2 chance of obtaining the correct house number. Therefore, let S be the event that the two numbers that fall off are the same i.e. either 22 or 77 and C be the event that Ronaldo puts up the numbers in the correct order again. By Law of Total Probability,

$$\mathbb { P } [ C ] = \mathbb { P } [ C \, | \, S ] \mathbb { P } [ S ] + \mathbb { P } [ C \, | \, S ^ { c } ] \mathbb { P } [ S ^ { c } ]$$

meaning P [ S c ] = 13 15 . If the two numbers that fall off are the same, Ronaldo will be correct with probability 1 , so P [ S | C ] = 1 . If the numbers are not the same, he will be correct with probability 1 / 2 , as one of the two arrangements is the true house number, so P [ C | S c ] = 1 / 2 . Adding all of these up, we get

There are ( 6 2 ) = 15 equally likely pairs of numbers to fall off, of which 2 of them are 22 or 77 , so P [ S ] = 2 15 ,

$$\mathbb { P } [ C ] = 1 \cdot \frac { 2 } { 1 5 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \frac { 1 3 } { 1 5 } = \frac { 1 7 } { 3 0 }$$

## 916 Game Arbitrage II

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider the following group with the following teams. The contracts are given in the format of (Team, Time-0 Price). The price of 0 . 67 means that if the team wins, you will get paid 1 . If the team loses, you will get paid 0 .