following probability:

$$\mathbb { P } [ J e f \ w i n s ] = \mathbb { P } [ J e f \ w i n s \ in 2 0 \ f i p s ] + \frac { 3 } { 4 } \mathbb { P } [ J e f \ h a s \ e q u a l \ h e d a s ] + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \mathbb { P } [ J e f \ h a s \ 1 \ e l s \ h e d ]$$

We can now move on to calculate each probability in the first 20 coins. From symmetry, we can see that P [ Jeff has more heads ] = P [ Jeff has less heads ] since there is no distinction between heads and tails. So, we have P [ Jeff has more heads ] = 1 2 (1 -P [ Jeff has equal heads ]) . We then can calculate the probabilities through some combinatorics:

$$\text {combinectors} & \quad \\ & \mathbb { P } [ J e f h a s \, \text {equal heads} ] = \sum _ { i = 0 } ^ { 2 0 } \left ( ^ { 2 0 } _ { i } \right ) ^ { 2 } ( 0 . 5 ) ^ { 4 0 } = . 5 ^ { 4 0 } \binom { 4 0 } { 2 0 } \approx 0 . 1 2 5 \\ & \mathbb { P } [ J e f h a s \, \text {more heads} ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left ( 1 - . 5 ^ { 4 0 } \binom { 4 0 } { 2 0 } \right ) \sim 0 . 4 3 7 \\ & \mathbb { P } [ J e f h a s \, 1 \, \text {less head} ] = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 2 0 } \left ( ^ { 2 0 } _ { i } \right ) \binom { 2 0 } { i - 1 } ( 0 . 5 ) ^ { 4 0 } \approx 0 . 1 1 9 \\ \text {value in, we obtain } & \mathbb { P } [ J e f \, \text {wins} ] \approx 0 . 5 6 1$$

Plugging the values in, we obtain P [ Jeff wins ] ≈ 0 . 561

## 1009 Compound Interest II

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

You start with $100 in your bank account today. You invest in a stock that yields 1% interest that is compounded daily. To the nearest dollar, how much will you have in your bank account after 15 days?

## Explanation:

Using the Taylor approximation e x ≈ 1 + x , we can see that 100(1 . 01) 15 ≈ 100(1 + 0 . 15) = 115 . However, we must adjust up a little bit for the interest that accrues over the 15 days i.e. it is not exactly $1 per day. Therefore, a natural guess is $116 , which is correct. One can see it will not go to $117 by the fact that the absolute maximum that could be attained is 1 . 15 · 15 = 17 . 25 , which is if you constantly receive 1 . 15 interest a day. However, this is a large overestimate, so 116 is a better guess.

## 1010 Conditional Expectation II

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose X ∼ Pois ( λ ) , where λ ∼ Exp (1) . Compute E [ X ] .