Upon closer inspection, one can see that this is the same as a straddle with strike K = 15 . Typically, this can be created by going long a call and put at the same strike K . Here, we do not have access to the put, and instead, we are replicating a put with the underlying and a bond (this is a forward contract).

## 675 Poisoned Kegs II

Company : Two Sigma, SIG, Goldman Sachs, Jane Street, Five Rings

## Prompt:

A king has 10 servants that bravely risk their lives to test whether or not the wine in n kegs is poisonous. It is known that exactly one of the n kegs is poisonous. If someone drinks any amount of liquor from the poisoned keg, they will die in exactly 1 month. Otherwise, the servant will be fine. The servants only agree to participate in the wine tasting for 1 month. What is the maximum value of n such that the king is guaranteed to determine which keg among the n is poisoned?

## Explanation:

The idea here is that we can number of kegs in binary and 0 -index them. In other words, label the kegs 0 to n -1 . With 10 servants, we can have up to 10 digits in our binary expansion of n -1 . Similarly, we can label the people 0 -9 and write keg label i = a 0 i + a 1 i · 2 1 + · · · + a 9 i · 2 9 , where each of a 0 i , a 1 i , . . . , a 9 i = 0 , 1 . We then give wine from urn i to all servants whose indices are in the subset

$$S _ { i } = \{ 0 \leq k \leq 9 \colon a _ { k i } = 1 \}$$

For example, if i = 17 = 0000010001 2 , we would give wine from keg 17 to servants 0 and 4 . Afterwards, the sequence of servants that die lets us uniquely see which keg is poisoned. For example, if servants 0 and 4 die, this means that keg 17 is poisoned. We essentially are creating a one-to-one mapping between the kegs and binary sequences of length 10 , so this means that n = 2 10 = 1024 is the maximum number of kegs we can test. We can't test any more than this because there are only 2 10 possible subsets of the servants, meaning that we would need two subsets of servants to test two different bottles if n &gt; 2 10 , which wouldn't allow us to uniquely identify it.

## 676 The Last Roll

Company : None

## Prompt:

A fair 6 -sided die is continually rolled until the sum of all the numbers is at least 1000 . What value on the die was most likely to show up on the last roll?