If you select ABA , your probability of winning the tournament is xy + xy -x 2 y = 2 xy -x 2 y by inclusionexclusion. If you select BAB , your probability of winning the tournament is xy + xy -y 2 x = 2 xy -y 2 x . However, as x &lt; y , we have that y 2 x &gt; x 2 y , so your probability of winning with BAB is smaller, as you subtract a larger number.

## 209 Bull Call Spread I

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider the following asset S , with initial price S 0 = 7 . In this bull call spread, you will long a call at strike K = 5 and short a call at strike K = 10 . What is the maximum and minimum payoff of this contract?

Give the result in the form: max 2 +min 2

## Explanation:

If we look at the payoff diagram of a bull call spread, we have V T = 0 , S T ∈ [0 , 5] , V T = S T -5 , S T ∈ [5 , 10] and V T = 10 , S T ∈ [5 , ∞ ) .

So, in the worst case, we will gain 0 and in the best case, we will gain 5 . In general, a bull call spread can cap the upside, but can also limit the downside loss. This option contract is the best when an investor expects a moderate increase in the stock (i.e it stays in the range of K 1 and K 2 ).

## 210 Red Card Deal

Company : Jump Trading

## Prompt:

A dealer presents to you the following game: The dealer is going to deal cards from the top of a standard deck one card at a time and turn them over on a table for you to see. You can tell the dealer to stop dealing at any time. If the next card is red, you win. Assuming optimal play, what is the highest probability you can achieve of being correct?

## Explanation:

Initially, it seems as if you can gain a small advantage in this game by waiting for the first moment when the red cards in the remaining deck outnumber the black. However, this may never happen. The question is now if that benefit outweighs the risk. The answer is no, and we can show this now.