## Explanation:

With probability 3 10 , the card is worth less than the payout, so you should choose the payout of 3 . 5 . Otherwise, you should take the face value of the card. Therefore, the expected value is

$$\frac { 3 } { 1 0 } \cdot \frac { 7 } { 2 } + \frac { 7 } { 1 0 } \cdot \frac { 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9 + 1 0 } { 7 } = \S 5 . 9 5$$

.

## 1027 Circular Slice I

Company : None

## Prompt:

A random angle θ 1 ∼ Unif (0 , 2 π ) is selected. Then, the arc of the unit circle that sweeps out θ 1 radians is marked red going counterclockwise starting from (1 , 0) . Two other angles θ 2 , α ∼ Unif (0 , 2 π ) IID are also selected. Afterwards, an arc of length θ 2 radians starting from the point that is α radians counterclockwise of (1 , 0) is swept out and colored blue. Find the probability that the blue and red regions are disjoint.

## Explanation:

For convenience, let's scale everything so that we are talking about proportions of the circle instead of radians. As a result, we are looking at Unif (0 , 1) random variables instead of Unif (0 , 2 π ) . We can do this because we are just scaling our units. Let's first think about the conditions needed to have no overlap.

First, we know that θ 1 &lt; α . This is because we know that we are going to sweep out an arc starting CCW from α , so for the starting point of this second arc to not interfere with the first, we must have that condition. In addition, we need θ 2 &lt; 1 -α (recall we are working in proportions here). This is because θ 1 &lt; α , so the arc starting at α with have proportion 1 -α of the circle left before interfering with the original segment. Therefore, we want P [ θ 1 &lt; α , θ 2 &lt; 1 -α ] . We see that both of these statements have α in them, so let's condition on α to remove that element of randomness.

This yields that P [ θ 1 &lt; α , θ 2 &lt; 1 -α ] = ∫ 1 0 P [ θ 1 &lt; α , θ 2 &lt; 1 -α | α = x ] f α ( x ) dx . We integrate on (0 , 1) because of our scaling factor. Now, if we know α = x , then the first term becomes P [ θ 1 &lt; x, θ 2 &lt; 1 -x ] = P [ θ 1 &lt; x ] P [ θ 2 &lt; 1 -x ] = x (1 -x ) by the uniform distribution of the values on (0 , 1) . Therefore, our probability of interest is ∫ 1 0 x -x 2 dx = 1 6 .