## Explanation:

We are going to solve this for more general n . Let t ( n ) be the number of ways of tiling a 3 × n board with these tiles. Consider tiling the first spots all the way at the left. There are three options:

Case 1: You place 3 1 × 2 tiles in each of the rows. In this case, there are t ( n -2) possible ways to tile the remaining grid, as you have eliminated the first two columns.

Case 2: You place a 1 × 2 tile in the first row and then a 2 × 1 tile in the first column bottom two rows OR a 2 × 1 tile in first column top two rows and a 1 × 2 tile in the bottom row. In both cases here, you end up with a grid that has a corner piece missing. We can just consider one of the two arrangements above and multiply by 2 , as they both yield a grid that has one corner missing.

Let the number of ways to tile the grid with one corner missing and n columns be s ( n ) . Consider tiling the first column of the grid where the corner is missing. You have two cases:

Case 2a: Place a 2 × 1 tile in the first column. In this case, you get a grid with no missing corner and n -1 columns, so there are t ( n -1) ways to tile the remaining grid.

Case 2b: Place three 1 × 2 tiles in each of the rows. You get another grid with n -2 columns and a missing corner, so there are s ( n -2) ways to tile the remaining grid.

Combining these together, we get that s ( n ) = t ( n -1) + s ( n -2) and t ( n ) = t ( n -2) + 2 s ( n -1) . The boundary conditions are that t (0) = 1 (empty grid), t (1) = 0 (no way to tile one column grid), s (0) = 0 (can't be a missing corner), and s (1) = 1 (just a single 2 × 1 tile).

We are looking for t (8) in this problem. Using this recurrence, one gets t (8) = 153 after some considerable effort.