## 363 Playlist

Company : None

## Prompt:

Drew is creating a playlist. There are 147 songs in the playlist, of which 4 are written by DaBaby and 6 are written by Rae Sremmurd. Drew randomly orders all of the songs in the playlist. Find the probability all of the Rae Sremmurd songs in the playlist come before the second DaBaby song.

## Explanation:

By exchangeability, we can just consider the first 10 songs in the playlist as being all Rae Sremmurd songs or DaBaby songs (since there are 6 Rae Sremmurd and 4 DaBaby). Consider 10 blanks. If all of the Rae Sremmurd songs come before the 2nd DaBaby song, the last 3 blanks must all be DaBaby songs. In the first 7 spots, there are P (7 , 6) = 7! 1! = 7! ways to permute the 6 DaBaby songs to the first 7 blanks. In the remaining 4 blanks, they must be DaBaby songs, so there are 4! ways to arrange the 4 DaBaby songs in the remaining blanks. There are 10! total ways to arrange the order of the songs, so our answer is 7!4! 10! = 24 10 · 8 · 9 = 1 30 .

## 364 Missing 7

Company :

## Prompt:

7

people uniformly at random select a random integer from the set { 1 , 2 , . . . , 7 } . Given that nobody selected 7 , find the probability that 7 is the only value nobody selected.

## Explanation:

To compute this probability, we need to find the number of assignments where 7 is missing. Then, we need to find the number of assignments where 7 is missing and nothing else is.

The number of assignments where 7 is missing is fairly easy. Namely, each of the 7 people can select any integer in { 1 , . . . , 6 } , so there are 6 7 ways they can select numbers. From how we have set this up, we are assigning numbers to the people. Therefore, to compute the numerator, note that to have the value 7 be the only one missing, exactly 2 people must pick one value and the other 5 people must pick the other 5 values.