/negationslash

The first sum evaluates to just n by trigonometric identities. The second has an interior equal to cos( θ i -θ j ) . Thus, we have that D 2 = n + ∑ i = j cos( θ i -θ j ) . Therefore, the expectation E [ D 2 ] = n + ∑ i = j E [cos( θ i -θ j )] . Computing this expectation is quite simple. The joint PDF of θ i and θ j is given by f ( θ i , θ j ) = 1 4 π 2 I (0 , 2 π ) ( θ i ) I (0 , 2 π ) ( θ j ) , so this expectation is given by ∫ 2 π 0 ∫ 2 π 0 cos( θ i -θ j ) 4 π 2 d θ i d θ j . The first integral evaluates to ∫ 2 π 0 -1 4 π 2 (sin(2 π -θ j ) -sin( -θ j )) d θ j = 0 , as sin( -θ j ) = sin(2 π -θ j ) by periodicity. Thus, the expectation is just n . Alternatively, you could see that since θ ranges over (0 , 2 π ) , the mean of the cosine and sine on those intervals is 0 , so that can go quicker.

Our specific case here is n = 16 , so 16 is our answer.

## 310 Short Wood

Company : SIG, Akuna, Two Sigma

## Prompt:

A lumberjack cuts a piece of wood of 1 meter in length at 2 uniformly randomly selected locations along the length of the wood. Find the probability the shortest piece of wood is at most 5 centimeters.

## Explanation:

Let X and Y be the two distances from the LHS where the wood is cut (in meters). Both of these are IID Unif (0 , 1) random variables. Since X and Y are IID, they are exchangeable. Thus, for simplicity, assume Y &gt; X . We will multiply by 2 at the end to account for when X &gt; Y . The lengths of the three pieces would then by given by X,Y -X, and 1 -Y . Thus, we want P [ min ( X,Y -X, 1 -Y ) &lt; 0 . 05] = 1 -P [ min ( X,Y -X, 1 -Y ) &gt; 0 . 05] .

By properties of the minimum, this is the same as 1 -P [ X &gt; 0 . 05 , Y &gt; X +0 . 05 , Y &lt; 0 . 95] . The last two terms are obtained by rearranging the inequalities. Drawing the region where all three of those conditions are true out in the plane yields a triangular region. Since the slope is one, the two legs are of the same length. Note that X &gt; 0 . 05 and Y &lt; 0 . 95 . Thus, we have that the endpoint of where we leave our region of interest is X = 0 . 9 , as then Y = 0 . 95 .

Thus, the length of each leg is 17 20 , so the area of the triangle is just 1 2 ( 17 20 ) 2 = 289 800 . Thus, we have that since X and Y are exchangeable, we multiply the above probability by 2 , so we get 289 400 , which means the

/negationslash