We start by solving for the expected payoffs and their variances:

$$E [ A ] = \frac { 1 } { \Lambda } ( 1 ) + \frac { 1 } { \Lambda } ( 3 ) + \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( 0 ) =$$

$$V [ B ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( 2 - 1 ) ^ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( 0 - 1 ) ^ { 2 } = 1$$

$$E [ A ] & = \frac { 1 } { 4 } ( 1 ) + \frac { 1 } { 4 } ( 3 ) + \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( 0 ) = 1 \\ & E [ B ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( 2 ) + \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( 0 ) = 1 \\ V [ A ] & = \frac { 1 } { 4 } ( 1 - 1 ) ^ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } ( 3 - 1 ) ^ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( 0 - 1 ) ^ { 2 } = \frac { 3 } { 2 } \\ V [ B ] & = \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( 2 - 1 ) ^ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( 0 - 1 ) ^ { 2 } = 1$$

Now, we can calculate A r and B r :

$$A _ { r } = 1 \div \frac { 3 } { 2 } = \frac { 2 } { 3 }$$

$$A _ { r } & = 1 \div \frac { 3 } { 2 } = \frac { 2 } { 3 } \\ B _ { r } & = 1 \div 1 = 1$$

$$B _ { r } - A _ { r } = \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

This conclusion shows how expected return is not the only metric that should be used when calculating the practical payoff of an investment. Even though the two players have the same expected return, Alice is taking on additional risk for her position. Ceteris paribus, Bob's position is favored over Alice's because he achieves higher expected return per unit of positional risk he takes on.

## 89 Dollar Cent Switch

Company :

## Prompt:

A man went to his local bank to cash a check. When giving his money to the cashier, by mistake, gave him dollars as cents and cents as dollars. He didn't examine the money and just walked home and spent a nickel on some candy. He then found that he possessed exactly twice as much money as the check was worth. He had no money in his pocket before going to the bank. How much was the check for?

## Explanation:

Let y be the number of cents and x be the number of dollars on the check. Then the man's check is x +0 . 01 y . The amount the main was paid is y +0 . 01 x . The amount he had that was exactly twice as much as the check was y +(0 . 01 x -0 . 05) . Therefore, 2 x +0 . 02 y = y +(0 . 01 x -0 . 05) .