## 1007 Win by N

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Person A has a 60% chance to win a round of a game against Person B. To win the entire game, one of the players must win N more rounds than the other person and they keep playing till someone wins. What is the probability Person A wins the entire game as N approaches infinity?

## Explanation:

Lets start out with the case where N = 1 . The probability of Person A winning is 0 . 6 0 . 6+0 . 4 = 0 . 6 . Lets see what happens when N = 2 . The probability that Person A wins two games in a row is 0 . 6 · 0 . 6 = 0 . 36 . The probability that Person B wins two games in a row is 0 . 4 · 0 . 4 = 0 . 16 . This problem becomes a random walk where there is a 0 . 36 chance of going +1 and 0 . 16 chance of going -1 . The other 0 . 48 chance our walk doesn't increase or decrease. We end the walk when we get to +2 or -2 . The probability Person A wins two games in a row before Person B is

$$\frac { 0 . 3 6 } { 0 . 3 6 + 0 . 1 6 } = \frac { 9 } { 1 3 }$$

As we keep increasing N , we see the general case becomes

$$\frac { 0 . 6 ^ { N } } { 0 . 6 ^ { N } + 0 . 4 ^ { N } } = \frac { 1 } { 1 + ( \frac { 2 } { 3 } ) ^ { N } } \\ \intertext { y } \intertext { P e r s o n } A w i n s a p r o a c h e s 1 . T$$

As N tends to infinity, the probability Person A wins approaches 1 . Thus the answer is 1 .

## 1008 2 Coin More

Company :

## Prompt:

Tim has 20 fair coins and Jeff has 22 fair coins. They both flip their coins. What is the probability that Jeff has more heads than Tim? Round to the nearest thousandth.

## Explanation:

Let's consider the first N = 20 coins. There are 3 possible events: Jeff has more heads, Jeff has equal heads, or Jeff has less heads. For Jeff to win in the next 2 coins, we need the following to occur. If Jeff has more heads in the first N coins, then Jeff will win with probability 1 . If Jeff has equal heads, then Jeff needs to get at least 1 head in the next 2 coins. This occurs with probability 3 / 4 . Finally, if Jeff has less heads, he can only win if he is exactly 1 head behind. In this case, he needs to obtain 2 heads. This leaves us with the