for the second lap if he wants his average speed between the two laps to be 60 miles per hour? If there is no such value of x , enter -1 .

## Explanation:

Consider the rate at which the car moves. For the average rate to be 60 mph between the two laps, the total time taken between the two laps must be 2 minutes. Since the racecar driver drove at 30 mph in the first mile, they spent 2 minutes on the first lap. Therefore, the racecar driver would have to complete the second lap instantaneously i.e. move at an infinite speed. This is not possible, so x = -1 .

## 709 Simple Delta Hedge II

Company :

## Prompt:

You see that call options have ∆ = 0 . 25 at strike K = 24 . The underlying has price S 0 = 21 . You sell 100 put options at strike K = 24 . You want to delta-hedge your portfolio. How many units of the underlying should you buy/sell? Enter -x if you should sell x units.

## Explanation:

We first need to obtain the ∆ of the put option. Delta can be interpreted probabilistically as the probability of finishing in-the-money. So, we can see that the ∆ of the put is -0 . 75 (also can use put-call parity). We are selling 100 units of the option, so we have an overall ∆ of -0 . 75 ∗ -1 ∗ 100 = 75 . To hedge this, we need to sell 75 units of the underlying.

## 710 Empty Boxes

Company : None

## Prompt:

n

balls are being dropped into n bins uniformly at random. Let P n be the proportion of bins that are empty after this dropping process is done with n balls. Find lim n →∞ ln( E [ P n ]) . If this limit does not exist, enter 2 .

## Explanation:

P n is the proportion of empty bins, so P n = N n n , where N n is the number of empty bins when we do the process with n balls. Therefore, E [ P n ] = 1 n E [ N n ] . This is our new goal to compute.