## Prompt:

Angelina is playing a game which she wins with probability 0 . 1 . She must pay 10 to play, and if she wins, she receives 80 . If Angelina starts out with 30 , to the nearest thousandth, what is the probability that she wins exactly once before losing it all?

## Explanation:

In the case that Angelina loses all her money after winning exactly once, Angelina must have played exactly 11 games. Moreover, Angelina must have won within the first three rounds; there are three possible ways for Angelina to satisfy this condition. Hence, our answer is (0 . 1)(0 . 9) 10 · 3 ≈ 0 . 105 .

## 291 Colosseum Fight I

Company :

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob are in Roman times and have 4 gladiators each. The strengths of each of Alice's gladiators are 1 -4 , while Bob's gladiators have strengths 4 , 5 , 9 , and 12 . The tournament is going to consist of Alice and Bob picking gladiators to fight against one another one-at-a-time. Then, the two gladiators fight to the death with no ties. If the two gladiators are of strengths x and y , respectively, then the probability that the gladiator with strength x wins is x x + y . The winning gladiator also inherits the strength of its opponent. This means that if a gladiator of strength x wins against a gladiator of strength y , the winner now has strength x + y .

Alice is going to pick first for each fight among her remaining gladiators. Afterwards, Bob can select his gladiator (assuming he has one) to go against the one Alice selected. The winner of the tournament is the person who has at least one gladiator left at the end. Assuming Bob plays optimally, what is his probability of winning the tournament?

## Explanation:

It turns out that all strategies are equally good. Suppose that each gladiator is given x balls if his strength is x . Then, we vertically stack all of the balls into into some random order. When two gladiators fight, the winner is going to be the one whose ball is highest vertically in the stack between the two. If the two strengths are x and y , the probability of x having the highest ball in the stack between the two is x x + y . Afterwards, the winner obtains the balls corresponding to the losing gladiator. The balls in the updated stack are still uniformly distributed, so we get independence between trials. However, Bob wins the tournament precisely when the ball at the top of the stack belongs to him. As the sum of all of Alice's power is 10 and Bob's power is 30 , this occurs with probability 3 4 . Note that this result is independent of the strategy, as we are never fixing a way for the gladiators to fight against one another.