What is the time0 price of a 10 / 15 / 20 put-fly?

## Explanation:

The put-fly is irrelevant here. A put-fly and a call-fly have the exact same payoff. The only difference is that one uses puts while the other uses calls. By no-arbitrage pricing, they must have the same payoff. A butterfly longs 1 unit of the wings and shorts 2 units of the body. So, we have the following:

$$V _ { 0 } = 8 . 1 - 2 ( 4 . 2 ) + 1 . 4 = 1 . 1$$

We can also use put-call parity to obtain the same value.

## 195 Make Your Martingale IV

Company :

## Prompt:

Let W t be a standard Brownian Motion. Define X t = W 10 t -∫ t 0 a s ds for some process { a t } t ≥ 0 adapted to the natural filtration of the probability space. The process a t that makes X t a martingale can we written as a t = AW B t for some real constants A and B . Find AB .

## Explanation:

The objective here is to calculate dX t via Ito's Formula. The process a t will cancel out the dt portion. Namely, dX t = 10 W 9 t dW t -a t dt + 1 2 · 90 W 8 t dt , as the integral portion has 0 second derivative. In particular we can write this as dX t = 10 W 9 t dW t +(45 W 8 t -a t ) dt , so a t = 45 W 8 t . This means our answer is 45 · 8 = 360 .

## 196 Coloring Components III

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider a line of 20 adjacent colorless squares. Color in each individual square black or white with equal probability, independent of all other squares. A connected 5 -component is a group of 5 consecutive black squares. Note that overlapping components are not counted. For example, WBBBBBWWB and WBBBBBBWB have 1 connected 5 -component, but WBBBBBBBBBBW has 2 connected 5 -components. Find the expected number of connected 5 -components in our line. The answer can be written as a simplified fraction of the form p q . Find p + q .