or n . However, we can rule out n by the fact that the if the algebraic multiplicity were n , the sum of all the eigenvalues (and hence the trace of A n ) would be 0 . However, one can quickly see that the trace of A n is 1 2 + 2 2 + · · · + n 2 = || x n || 2 = n ( n +1)(2 n +1) 6 by working out the multiplication. Thus, the algebraic multiplicity of λ = 0 is n -1 , and the last eigenvalue must be

$$| | x _ { n } | | ^ { 2 } = \frac { n ( n + 1 ) ( 2 n + 1 ) } { 6 }$$

We can quickly see that the dominating term of || x n || 2 is an n 3 term, so k = 3 is our answer.

## 64 Car Crashes

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

On a given busy intersection, the probability of at least one car crash in a 1 hour time interval is 8 9 . Assuming that car crashes occur independently of one another and at a constant rate throughout time, find the probability of at least one car crash in a 30 minute interval.

## Explanation:

Let the probability in question be p . We know that the probability there is no car crash in the hour interval is 1 9 by complementation. This is the same as saying that there is no car crash in each of the intervals consisting of the first and last 30 minutes of the hour. By the question, we can say that the number of car crashes in disjoint intervals are independent. This is because they occur at a constant rate throughout time and the arrivals are independent. The probability of no car crash in each of those two intervals individually is 1 -p , so the probability of no car crash in both intervals is (1 -p ) 2 . Thus, (1 -p ) 2 = 1 9 , so p = 2 3 .

## 65 Prime First

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Consider the set of integers S = { 2 , 3 , . . . , 30 } . Alice and Bob play a game where they take turns selecting integers from S . The first player to select an integer that shares a common factor with a previously picked integer loses. Alice has the ability to determine if she wants to select first or second. Assume both players play optimally. Let p = 1 if Alice should choose to go first and p = 2 if she should go second. There are 6 optimal selections v 1 , . . . , v 5 for Alice's first turn. Find 100 p + v 1 + v 2 + v 3 + v 4 + v 5 + v 6 6 .