## Prompt:

3 heterosexual couples ( 6 people) are having a nice dinner. The 6 people are randomly paired up with no restrictions. Find the probability at least one of the couples are paired up together.

## Explanation:

Label the couples 1 -3 , and let C i represent the event that couple i is paired up together. We want P [ C 1 ∪ C 2 ∪ C 3 ] By the inclusion-exclusion formula and the fact that the couples are exchangeable,

$$\mathbb { P } [ C _ { 1 } \cup C _ { 2 } \cup C _ { 3 } ] = 3 \mathbb { P } [ C _ { 1 } ] - 3 \mathbb { P } [ C _ { 1 } \cap C _ { 2 } ] + \mathbb { P } [ C _ { 1 } \cap C _ { 2 } \cap C _ { 3 } ]$$

P [ C 1 ] is just the probability couple 1 is paired up. Fix one person in couple 1 . Then exactly 1 of the 5 remaining people is that person's actual partner, so this probability is just 1 5 . Note that P [ C 1 ∩ C 2 ] = P [ C 1 ∩ C 2 ∩ C 3 ] , as if two of the couples are matched together, the third also will be by default. Therefore, we can compute P [ C 1 ∩ C 2 ] = P [ C 2 | C 1 ] P [ C 1 ] . We have P [ C 1 ] from before. Then, given the first couple is matched, fix any other person. Then 1 of the 3 remaining people will be the partner of that person so P [ C 2 | C 1 ] = 1 3 , so P [ C 1 ∩ C 2 ] = 1 15 . Combining all of this into the our initial inclusion-exclusion, we have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ C _ { 1 } \cup C _ { 2 } \cup C _ { 3 } ] = 3 \cdot \frac { 3 } { 1 5 } - 3 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 1 5 } + \frac { 1 } { 1 5 } = \frac { 7 } { 1 5 }$$

## 954 Divisible Dice

Company : None

## Prompt:

You roll 10 fair 6 -sided dice and sum the values. What is the probability that the sum is divisible by 6 ?

## Explanation:

Let the sum of the first 9 dice be x . Then with equal probability, the sum of all the dice is x +1 , . . . , x +6 . Exactly one of these 6 values is divisible by 6 , so our answer is 1 6 .

## 955 Idempotent Eigenvalues

Company :

## Prompt:

A n × n matrix A is called idempotent is A 2 = A . Let A be a 10 × 10 non-defective idempotent matrix with null ( A ) = 4 . Let λ be the only possible non-zero eigenvalue of A and r be the dimension of the eigenspace generated by that eigenvalue. Find λ 2 + r 2 .