Suppose you pick one card. You start paying $1 to reveal the difference between that card and each other card of the remaining 12 . We can split up into two cases: The first card you selected does have value 0 or does not have value 0 .

If the first card is a 0 , then at some point in the first 11 differences, you will either two differences of 0 (in which you completely identify your card as a 0 ) and a difference of 9 or you obtain a difference of 10 (or both!). You would only need to spend $11 at worst, as if one of the two scenarios doesn't occur in the first 11 differences, we know that the 9 or 10 (whichever difference wasn't obtained) is the last card whose value you didn't difference yet. This means that in the worst case scenario you only need to ask for the difference between your card and 11 more cards out of the 12 total cards, which yields $11 payment.

If the value of the first card is not 0 , we know that there are 3 cards with value 0 still remaining in the deck. You can identify which card you picked as soon as you obtain 2 face cards, as their values are 0 and you would be told the same number twice. Therefore, in this case, you also need to pay only $11 at most in order to be able to have full knowledge of where the 9 and the 10 are located.

## 918 Vasicek Equation

Company :

## Prompt:

Let W t be a standard Brownian Motion. Let R t satisfy the SDE

$$d R _ { t } = ( a - b R _ { t } ) d t + \sigma d W _ { t }$$

for a, b, σ &gt; 0 and R 0 = r &gt; 0 . E [ R T ] can be written as a function of a, b, r, and T . Evaluate this function with parameters T = 10 , a = 0 . 2 , b = 0 . 1 , σ = 0 . 1 , and r = 1 . The answer will be in the form A + Be C for integers A,B, and C . Find A + B + C .

## Explanation:

We can calculate d ( e bt R t ) via Ito's Formula. This can be done via the product rule. In particular,

$$d ( e ^ { b t } R _ { t } ) = b e ^ { b t } R _ { t } d t + e ^ { b t } d R _ { t } = b e ^ { b t } R _ { t } d t + e ^ { b t } \left ( ( a - b R _ { t } ) d t + \sigma d W _ { t } \right ) = a e ^ { b t } d t + \sigma e ^ { b t } d W _ { t }$$