## Explanation:

By expanding out the interior, E   ( 2 n ∑ m =1 ∆ 2 m,n -t ) 2   = E   ( 2 n ∑ m =1 ∆ 2 m,n ) 2 -2 t 2 n ∑ m =1 ∆ 2 m,n + t 2   . Applying linearity of expectation, we get that the above is

$$\mathbb { E } \left [ \left ( \sum _ { m = 1 } ^ { 2 ^ { n } } \Delta _ { m , n } ^ { 2 } \right ) ^ { 2 } \right ] - 2 t \mathbb { E } \left [ \sum _ { m = 1 } ^ { 2 ^ { n } } \Delta _ { m , n } ^ { 2 } \right ] + t ^ { 2 } \\$$

We know that since ∆ m,n ∼ N (0 , t/ 2 n ) by stationarity, E [ ∆ 2 m,n ] = t 2 n . Therefore, the sum in the second term is 2 n · t 2 n = t . For the first sum, we expand out the square and pair up all the terms. Namely,

/negationslash

$$\mathbb { E } \left [ \left ( \sum _ { m = 1 } ^ { 2 ^ { n } } \Delta _ { m , n } ^ { 2 } \right ) ^ { 2 } \right ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 2 ^ { n } } \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { 2 ^ { n } } \Delta _ { i , n } ^ { 2 } \Delta _ { j , n } ^ { 2 } \right ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 2 ^ { n } } \Delta _ { i , n } ^ { 4 } \right ] + \sum _ { 1 \leq i \neq j \leq 2 ^ { n } } \mathbb { E } [ \Delta _ { i , n } ^ { 2 } ] \mathbb { E } [ \Delta _ { j , n } ^ { 2 } ] \\ \intertext { W e get the last equality above by breaking up into where }$$

/negationslash

We get the last equality above by breaking up into where i = j and i = j . This is because of the independence when i = j . For the first sum, we use the fact that if Z ∼ N (0 , σ 2 ) , then E [ Z 4 ] = 3 σ 4 . In this case, the first sum evaluates to 2 n · 3 ( t 2 n ) 2 . There are 2 n · 2 n -2 n = 2 n (2 n -1) terms in the second sum. We already

/negationslash

( t ) 2

$$\mathbb { E } \left [ \left ( \sum _ { m = 1 } ^ { 2 ^ { n } } \Delta _ { m , n } ^ { 2 } \right ) ^ { 2 } \right ] & = t ^ { 2 } \left ( 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { n - 1 } } \right ) \\$$

evaluated each term inside that second sum to be 2 n , so we get that the combination of the two sums above yields

Adding up all three terms from the second line, we get that our answer is t 2 2 n -1 . Plugging in t = 1 and n = 5 yields 1 16 as our answer.

## 748 Optimal Bidders II

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Carter has come into contact with a bounty of gold. He takes it to an auction shop. The auction shop says that each person that bids will place a bid that is uniformly distributed between $500 and $1000 . They also state that they can recruit people to bid for a price of $10 per person. However, the auction shop also states that Carter will only receive the payment of the second highest bid. Assuming Carter selects the optimal number of people to bid on his gold, what is his expected payout?