## Explanation:

Consider all the primes in S : 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 11 , 13 , 17 , 19 , 23 , 29 . There are 10 such integers. The key idea to notice here is that for whoever selects the integer 6 , that eliminates 2 and 3 . Therefore, no other pairwise products of primes among the remaining prime integers are at most 30 . Therefore, there would be 8 primes left, and whoever is selecting first in this new game loses, as they can only eliminate one prime factor a turn. However, this "new game" is really just the second turn our game after we eliminate 2 and 3 . Therefore, Alice should go first, select the value 6 (alternatively, 12 , 18 , or 24 also work, as they have the same primes in the factorization) so that she can eliminate both 2 and 3 , and then Bob and Alice alternate selecting among the remaining prime integers. Then, Bob would be forced to pick some non-prime integer, which will have a prime factor among those already eliminated, so Bob will lose. Therefore, Alice should go first, and the answer is 1 .

However, there is also another sneaky starting integer, which is 5 . This is because regardless of what Bob selects on his first turn after Alice selects 5 , Alice can force Bob to eliminate one prime factor at a time after her next turn, so this also works. Since 5 works, 5 2 = 25 also works. Therefore,

$$1 0 0 ( 1 ) + \frac { 6 + 1 2 + 1 8 + 2 4 + 5 + 2 5 } { 6 } = 1 1 5$$

## 66 Decorrelation

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X and Y be random variables with finite expectation. Suppose we know Var ( X ) = 16 and Cov ( X,Y ) = 8 . Find a constant k so that X and Y -kX are uncorrelated.

## Explanation:

$$\text {If} \, C o v ( X , Y - k X ) = 0 , \, \text {then by bilinearity} , \, C o v ( X , Y ) - k C o v ( X , X ) = 0 , \, \text {which means that} \, k = \frac { C o v ( X , Y ) } { \text {Var} ( X ) } .$$

Plugging in our values, we get k = 1 2 .

## 67 Doda Rectangle

Company :

## Prompt:

Each vertex of a regular dodecagon is randomly colored either red or blue. A "dodeca-rectangle" is defined as a rectangle whose 4 identically-colored vertices belong to the regular dodecagon. Compute the probability