11 5 has remainder 1 when divided by 50 . As 2360 = 5 · 472 , the remainder of (11 5 ) 472 when divided by 50 is going to be 1 472 = 1 .

## 1080 The Arithmetical Cabby

Company :

## Prompt:

The driver of the taxi-cab was wanting in civility, so Mr. Wilkins asked him for his number. "You want my number, do you?" said the driver. "Well, work it out for yourself. If you divide by number by 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , you will find there is always 1 over, but if you divide it by 11 , there ain't no remainder. What's more, there's no other driver with a lower number who can say the same." What was the fellow's number?

## Explanation:

Let n be the driver's number. We know that n -1 is divisible by 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 . Hence, we know that n -1 = k ∗ lcm (2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6) = 60 k , where k is an integer.

If k = 0 , we get n = 1 , which is not divisible by 11 . Similarly, k = 1 yields n = 61 which is also not divisible by 11 . Finally, k = 2 yields n = 121 , which is divisible by 11 . Hence, this is our result.

## 1081 Contract Arbitrage

Company :

## Prompt:

We have a contract, V , that pays min(2 S T , 4) at expiry with initial price V 0 = 3 . 4 , the following European puts, given in the format of ( Strike K, Price C 0 ) .

$$( 4 , 2 . 4 ) \\ ( 2 , 0 . 8 )$$

We also have access to the underlying, S , with an initial price of S 0 = 3 and bonds that pay 1 at expiry, with an initial price of Z 0 = 0 . 9 . Find the arbitrage. Give the answer in the format of # Contract (V) + # Put (K = 4) + # Put (K = 2) + # Bonds

## Explanation:

The arbitrage involves our contract. This contract is the same as going long 4 units of the bond and shorting 2 units of the strike K = 2 put. By the condition of no-arbitrage, we would expect this to be equal to the price of our custom contract V .