## Explanation:

The implied odds of the respect horses are 1 / 2 , 1 / 4 , and 1 / 6 , respectively. These sum to strictly less than 1 , so there is an arbitrage. We want to make a constant amount of money regardless of the outcome. Namely, if we bet our money in proportions $6 / 11 , $3 / 11 , and $2 / 11 in order on the three horses, we see that regardless of the outcome, we get a payout of $12 / 11 . However, we only bet $1 , yielding a profit of $1 / 11 always.

We obtain our proportions because the sum of the probabilities is 11 / 12 , so all we need to do is bet in a way that yields a constant positive expected payout relative to the probabilities of each horse winning.

## 42 McQueen Speeding

Company :

## Prompt:

Lightning McQueen, Doc Hudson, and Chick Hicks all race in the Piston Cup to run it back. They race around an 1 kilometer track. It turns out that Lightning McQueen is first, Doc Hudson is second, and Chick Hicks is third. Lightning McQueen finishes his lap 200 meters ahead of Doc Hudson. Furthermore, Doc Hudson finishes his lap 200 meters ahead of Chick Hicks. Assuming that each car moves with a constant speed, at the moment when Lightning McQueen finishes his lap, how many meters is Chick Hicks away from finishing his lap?

## Explanation:

To solve this, we must obtain the relative speed of Lightning McQueen to Chick Hicks. Let s be the speed Chick Hicks. Doc Hudson must move at a speed of 5 4 s , as Doc Hudson moves 1000 meters in the time that Chick Hicks moves 800 meters. Similarly, Lightning McQueen must move at a rate of 5 4 ( 5 4 s ) = 25 16 s by the same logic of comparing his distance travelled to Doc Hudson.

Since Lightning McQueen moves at a speed 25 16 times as large as Chick Hicks, this says that if Lightning McQueen covers a distance d , Chick Hicks covers a distance of 16 25 d . In particular, d = 1000 here, so Chick Hicks has travelled 640 meters in the lap, meaning he is 360 meters away from finishing his lap.

## 43 The Perfect Hedge I

Company :