## Prompt:

Plutonium decays at an average rate of 1 time per second. Find the probability an atom of Plutonium doesn't decay in next 3 seconds. The answer is in the form e a for some a . Find a .

## Explanation:

The average rate of decay is 1 per second, so the time between decays is T ∼ Exp (1) . We want P [ T &gt; 3] . This is just ∫ ∞ 3 e -x dx = e -3 , so a = -3 .

## 1099 Goat Search

Company : None

## Prompt:

A farmer wants one male and one female goat for breeding. He goes to Mount Everest to find goats. Each goat is known to be male with probability 3 4 , independent of all other goats. The farmer takes a goat, examines it, and then leaves with the first two goats that are of opposite genders. If N is the total number of goats that the farmer examines until he observes two goats of opposite genders, find E [ N ] .

## Explanation:

Let M and F represent the events that the first goats viewed are male and female, respectively. By Law of Total Expectation,

$$\mathbb { E } [ N ] & = \mathbb { E } [ N \, | \, M ] \mathbb { P } [ M ] + \mathbb { E } [ N \, | \, F ] \mathbb { P } [ F ] \\$$

We know P [ M ] = 3 4 , so P [ F ] = 1 4 . Then, given the first goat selected is male, with probability 1 4 on each trial after we get a female goat and then we leave. Therefore, the distribution of the number of trials needed to see the first female goat after the male is selected is Geom ( 1 4 ) , which has mean 4 . Therefore, E [ N | M ] = 1 + 4 = 5 . We add the one in for the first goat (male) that is selected.

Similarly, if the first goat is female, the distribution of the number of goats needed to be selected until getting a male goat is Geom ( 3 4 ) , which has mean 4 3 . Therefore, E [ N | F ] = 1 + 4 3 = 7 3 . Putting it all together, E [ N ] = 5 · 3 4 + 7 3 · 1 4 = 13 3 .

## 1100 Binomial Pricing a Binary Call

Company :