## Prompt:

Suppose that B ∼ Rayleigh (1) i.e. B has the PDF f ( b ) = be -b 2 / 2 I (0 , ∞ ) ( b ) and C ∼ Exp (2) are independent. Find the probability that the equation x 2 + Bx + C = 0 has no real solutions.

## Explanation:

Recall there there are no real solutions to this equation when B 2 -4 C &lt; 0 . In other words, we would need C &gt; B 2 4 . The joint PDF of B and C is f B,C ( b, c ) = be -b 2 / 2 · 2 e -2 c I (0 , ∞ ) ( b ) I (0 , ∞ ) ( c ) by independence of B and C . Now, finding this probability, we get

$$\mathbb { P } [ C > B ^ { 2 } / 4 ] = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } \int _ { b ^ { 2 } / 4 } ^ { \infty } b e ^ { - b ^ { 2 } / 2 } \cdot 2 e ^ { - 2 c } d c d b = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } b e ^ { - b ^ { 2 } / 2 } \cdot e ^ { - b ^ { 2 } / 2 } d b = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } b e ^ { - b ^ { 2 } } d b = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

The first equality comes from just bounding this region in the plane, the second is just the survival function of the Exponential distribution, and the last equality comes from u -substitution with u = b 2 .

## 440 Contracts and Pricing III

Company : None

## Prompt:

After being caught in an embarrassing high-profile data fabrication scandal, Calambya University decides to stop sharing data with the national college ranking organization, effective in 2023. Rival school Mahogany University is overjoyed and offers each student a tuition refund worth X thousand dollars, where X = Calambya's 2023 Ranking -Mahogany's 2023 Ranking. One Mahogany student, Justin, offers to sell the following contract to his friend Kevin for 0 . 70 thousand dollars, before X is known: Justin will give Kevin the right but not the obligation to purchase Justin's tuition refund for only 0 . 5 thousand dollars. Suppose X ∼ Exp ( β ) , where β is the scale. Compute β to the nearest tenth under the assumption that the contract is priced fairly.

## Explanation:

Removing all the extra useless information, we know X ∼ Exp ( β ) and the fair contract is worth $0 . 7 thousand dollars, meaning the expected gain should be 0.

Assuming Kevin bought the contract, he will only exercise his right to purchase Justin's tuition refund if the actual value of the tuition refund is worth more than 0 . 5 thousand dollars. Otherwise, Kevin will simply take the loss in the price paid for the contract. Kevin's gain/loss, G may be expressed as follows:

$$G = \begin{cases} - 0 . 7 + X - 0 . 5 & X > 0 . 5 \\ - 0 . 7 & X \leq 0 . 5 \end{cases} \\$$