solved has infinite solutions). To provide an exact answer, the probabilities must be provided for a trinomial model, when compared to the binomial model.

We can see that the stock price has final values 10 . 4 , 8 , 4 . Of these, the option only has value when the stock price is 10 . 4 . More specifically, the call option will have value S T -K = 10 . 4 -8 = 2 . 4 . The time0 price is simply the expected value at time1 , which is just 0 . 2 ∗ 2 . 4 = 0 . 48 .

## 325 Russian Roulette I

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You're playing a game of Russian Roulette with a friend. The six-chambered revolver is loaded with one bullet. Initially, the cylinder is spun to randomize the order of the chambers. The two of you take turns pulling the trigger until the person who fires the gun loses. Given that the cylinder is not re-spun after each turn, what is the probability that you win if your friend goes first?

## Explanation:

After the cylinder is initially spun, the position of the bullet is fixed. Thus, you win if the bullet is in chambers 1, 3, or 5, and lose if the bullet is in chambers 2, 4, or 6. The probability of winning is 1 2 .

## 326 Big Smalls

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob play the following game: Alice generates a uniformly random integer between 1 and 100 , inclusive of both. Bob can pick any number that he wants between 1 and 100 , inclusive of both. Whoever has the larger number must pays out the amount of the smaller number to the person with the smaller number. For example, if Alice selects 70 and Bob selects 50 , Bob will receive 50 from Alice. If they select the same number, nobody pays out anything. Assuming optimal play by Bob, what is his expected payout?

## Explanation:

Let Z x be Bob's gain if he selects the value x . Furthermore, let Y be the randomly generated number. We can ignore the case where Y = x , as the payout there is 0 for both people. By Law of Total Expectation, we have

$$\mathbb { E } [ Z _ { x } ] = \mathbb { E } [ Z _ { x } \, | \, x > Y ] \mathbb { P } [ x > Y ] + \mathbb { E } [ Z _ { x } \, | \, x < Y ] \mathbb { P } [ x < Y ]$$