(3) there are 4! ways to order the four distinguishable aces among the four allotted ace slots. Now, we have a simple optimization problem:

$$k _ { \text {optimal} } & = \arg \max \left \{ \mathbb { P } ( A a r o n \, w i n s ) \right \} \\ & = \arg \max \left \{ \frac { 1 2 \cdot 4 8 ! \cdot ( 5 2 - k ) ( k - 1 ) ( k - 2 ) } { k \in \{ 1 , \dots , 5 \} } \right \}$$

Let's take the derivative of P ( Aaron wins ) with respect to k , set it to 0 , and solve for k .

$$\frac { d } { d k } \frac { 1 2 \cdot 4 8 ! \cdot ( 5 2 - k ) ( k - 1 ) ( k - 2 ) } { 5 2 ! } = 0$$

Diving out the constants and simplifying, we find

$$\frac { d } { d k } \left ( - k ^ { 3 } + 5 5 k ^ { 2 } - 1 5 8 k + 1 0 4 \right ) & = 0 \\ & \Rightarrow 3 k ^ { 2 } - 1 1 0 k + 1 5 8 = 0$$

$$k = \frac { 5 5 } { 3 } \pm \frac { \sqrt { 2 5 5 1 } } { 3 }$$

Solving for k, we find

Note that k cannot equal 55 3 -√ 2551 3 &lt; 2 . Additionally, k must be an integer, and 35 &lt; 55 3 + √ 2551 3 &lt; 36 . Testing both k = 35 and k = 36 , we find that k = 35 achieves the greatest probability for Aaron to win a prize.

## 1052 Distinct Date II

Company : Jane Street, Old Mission

## Prompt:

Find the most recent date where all of the digits, when expressed in the form MM/DD/YYYY are distinct. For example, 01 / 23 / 4567 would be a valid date. Express your answer in the form MMDDYYYY .

## Explanation:

Our goal now is the maximize the year to make it as close as possible to our present date. The biggest thing to first note is that the year must start with a 1 . Suppose that it started with a 2 . We know that the first M is either a 0 or 1 . If it is a 0 , then the day either starts with a 1 or is 31 . Note that the other M can't be a 1 in this case. Otherwise, that would eliminate the day possibilities. If the month starts with a 1 , then the day either contains 0 or is 30 . However, since the 0 is taken already in the MMDD part, regardless of what we start with, we can't get a year that is in the past.