## Explanation:

The man must have lived in the 1800 s or 1900 s. Starting with the first condition, the only combination of a and b that gets close to this range is 5 4 +6 4 = 1921 . Therefore, the man must have supposedly been 5 2 +6 2 = 61 in 1921 . This would imply the man was born in 1860 . We now need to attempt to verify the other conditions. To be 2 m years old in the year 2 m 2 , we need to find m satisfying 1860+2 m = 2 m 2 , so 930 = 31 · 30 = m ( m -1) , so m = 31 works here. This would be consistent with the first piece of information. Lastly, we must find an n such that 1860+3 n = 3 n 4 , which means that 620 = 5 · 124 = 5(5 3 -1) = n 4 -n = n ( n 3 -1) . Thus, n = 5 , Therefore, we get that abmn = 5 · 6 · 5 · 31 = 4650 .

## 515 Swapping X and Y

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider a simple univariate linear regression. We have the following X and Y values.

$$( 5 , 5 ) , ( 4 , 0 ) , ( 6 , 1 0 )$$

We regress Y onto X and obtain some β . Now, we regress X onto Y . Without doing any calculation, how does β change? Enter 1 for increase, 0 for stay the same, and -1 for decrease.

## Explanation:

Consider the formula to calculate β in a simple linear regression, regressing Y onto X : β = Cov ( X,Y ) V ar ( X ) . The denominator corresponds to the variance of the independent variable. If we swap Y and X , the denominator becomes Var ( Y ) . From looking at the data, we can see that the variance of Y is larger than the variance of X . So, the denominator will be bigger in the case of the second regression, decreasing the value of β .

## 516 Geometric PGF

Company :

## Prompt:

Instead of the Moment Generating Function (MGF), for non-negative integer-valued discrete random variables X , we can define the Probability Generating Function (PGF), which is given by p ( z ) = E [ z X ] for | z | ≤ 1 . Find the PGF of X ∼ Geom ( p ) . Evaluate this function for z = 1 3 and p = 2 3 .