## 795 Bank Arbitrage

Company :

## Prompt:

You have a bond and bank account that pay 5% and 3% compounded annually. You are allowed to buy or borrow the bond (needing to repay it back later). Similarly, you are able to borrow money from the bank (needing to pay the principal and interest at the end) or deposit money into the bank. There is an arbitrage opportunity. How much profit will you receive at the end of 1 year if you have $200 total? Round to the nearest cent.

## Explanation:

We can see that if we borrow $100 from the bank account and use that money to buy the bond, we will gain a free $2 . 08 at the end of the 1 year. This is because we will owe the bank account $100 and some interest, but we will gain more interest from the bond. In the 1 year, we can see that our $100 bond will grow to V T = 100 e 0 . 05(1) . Similarly, we can see that we will owe the bank account V T = 100 e . 03(1) . We can return the principal and interest from the bond to repay the bank account, and obtain 100 e 0 . 05(1) -100 e . 03(1) ≈ 2 . 08 while doing so.

## 796 Grid Filling I

Company : None

## Prompt:

The integers 1 through 9 are randomly placed into the 9 squares of a 3 x 3 grid such that each square has one integer and each integer is used once. What is the probability that the sum of each row and each column is even?

## Explanation:

This is not possible. There are 5 odd and 4 even numbers, and for three numbers to sum to an even number, either one or three of the numbers must be even. In other words, we cannot have any row or column with two evens. Looking at the columns, by Pigeonhole Principle, there must be at least one column with all even numbers, because there are four even numbers for three columns, and no column can have only two even numbers as noted. However, once a column is stacked with three even numbers, the last even number will necessarily cause a row to have two even numbers, and thus that row will sum to an odd. Because there are no possible combinations where the sum of each row and column is even, the probability that the sum of each row and column is even is 0.