because a wins with probability a a + b and b wins with probability b a + b . We want to optimize A ( a, b ) for a when b is a fixed value. Therefore, we are going to take the derivative of A ( a, b ) (treating A ( a, b ) as continuous in its arguments) with respect to a and try to optimize that. Taking the derivative, we get

$$\frac { \partial } { \partial a } A ( a , b ) = - \frac { a ^ { 2 } + 2 b a + b ^ { 2 } - 2 0 0 b } { ( a + b ) ^ { 2 } } = 0 \iff a ^ { 2 } + 2 b a + b ^ { 2 } - 2 0 0 b = 0 \iff a ^ { * } = \frac { - 2 b \pm \sqrt { 4 b ^ { 2 } - 4 b ^ { 2 } + 8 0 0 b } } { 2 }$$

However, note that the root involving subtraction of the square root would be negative, so we must add our square root instead. Simplifying, we get a ∗ = 10 √ 2 b -b . As the game is symmetric, b ∗ = 10 √ 2 a -a .

To find the optimal strategy, we must solve for when a ∗ = b ∗ . In other words, we let b in the equation for a ∗ be b ∗ = a ∗ . This means that

$$a ^ { * } = 1 0 \sqrt { 2 a ^ { * } } - a ^ { * } \iff 4 ( a ^ { * } ) ^ { 2 } = 2 0 0 a ^ { * } \iff a ^ { * } = 0 , 5 0$$

Once again, as a ∗ &gt; 0 , we must have a ∗ = b ∗ = 50 , which means (50 , 50) is our Nash equilibrium. Therefore, player A should place 50 marbles in.

## 898 Rabbit Hop V

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

A rabbit starts at the floor in front of a staircase of 10 stairs. The rabbit can hop up any odd amount of stairs at each movement. How many distinct paths are there from the floor to the top of the staircase (i.e. to the top of the 10 th stair)?

## Explanation:

Let o n be the number of distinct paths that the rabbit can take to go up a staircase of height n . We can condition on the size of the first jump. We can jump either 1 , 3 , 5 , . . . , α , where α = n if n is odd and n -1 if n is even. In other words, α is the largest odd integer at most n . By conditioning, we have that

$$o _ { n } = o _ { 1 } + o _ { 3 } + \cdots + o _ { \alpha }$$

Let's take a closer look at the tail term o 3 + · · · + o α . If the rabbit started on the second stair, this is exactly the sum that would be obtained, as the rabbit must can up 1 , 3 , 5 , . . . , α -1 stairs from stair 2 . These correspond to the exact terms in the tail sum when taking the ground floor to be stair 2 . This means that

$$o _ { 2 } = o _ { 3 } + \dots + o _ { \alpha }$$