## Explanation:

Let α = P [ U + V &gt; 1] and β = P [ U + V &lt; 1] . We know that α + β = 1 since U and V are continuous so they sum to exactly 1 with probability 0 .

We use the fact that if X ∼ Unif (0 , 1) , 1 -X ∼ Unif (0 , 1) as well. With this fact equipped, let U ′ = min { 1 -X 1 , . . . , 1 -X n } and V ′ = max { 1 -X 1 , . . . , 1 -X n } . By our previous fact, as we are still making maxima and minima over uniform random variables, P [ U ′ + V ′ &gt; 1] = α and P [ U ′ + V ′ &lt; 1] = β . Furthermore, observe that U ′ = 1 -V , as to minimize 1 -X i , you have to maximize X i and subtract that from 1 . Similarly, V ′ = 1 -U . Therefore,

$$\alpha = \mathbb { P } [ U ^ { \prime } + V ^ { \prime } > 1 ] = \mathbb { P } [ ( 1 - V ) + ( 1 - U ) > 1 ] = \mathbb { P } [ U + V < 1 ] = \beta$$

These together imply that α = β = 1 2 .

## 983 Coin Identifier

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

Brian walks to the convenience store with $0 . 60 in his pocket. His money is made of solely nickels, dimes, and quarters. If Brian has N coins in his pocket, find the smallest value of N such that the quantities of each type of coin in Brian's pocket can't be uniquely identified.

## Explanation:

Clearly N = 1 and N = 2 don't work, as you can't obtain $0 . 60 from just one or two coins of these denominations. For N = 3 , we can see that 2 quarters and 1 dime work. There are no other ways to obtain the sum besides this.

Now, note that $0 . 40 is the smallest denomination that can be written in two different ways using the same amount of coins. Namely, we can use 4 coins to write $0 . 40 as 1 quarter and 3 nickels OR 4 dimes. Therefore, we can just append 2 dimes to each of these combinations, and we get that N = 6 is the smallest value for which this is true.

To verify $0 . 40 is the smallest value, we know that the number is at least $0 . 25 , as otherwise we can't utilize quarters, so test $0 . 30 and $0 . 35 and see that they don't work.