## Prompt:

A king has 5 servants that bravely risk their lives to test whether or not the wine in n kegs is poisonous. It is known that exactly one of the n kegs is poisonous. If someone drinks any amount of liquor from the poisoned keg, they will die in exactly 1 month. Otherwise, the servant will be fine. The servants agree to participate in the wine tasting for 3 months. What is the maximum value of n such that the king is guaranteed to determine which keg among the n is poisoned?

## Explanation:

We are going to use a similar idea to Poisoned Kegs II. We used binary expansion in Poisoned Kegs II since we only had 1 month, so each servant could either drink or not drink from a given keg. Now, we can assign some servants to drink at the first month, second month, and third month. With 5 servants, we convert each keg label i = a 0 i + a 1 i · 4 1 + a 2 i · 4 2 + a 3 i · 4 3 + a 4 i · 4 4 , where each a ki = 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 for 0 ≤ k ≤ 4 . If a ki = 0 , we don't have servant k drink from keg i at all. If a ki = r for r &gt; 0 , servant k drinks from keg i in month r .

When a servant dies, we now record which servant died and what hour they died in. From that, we can reconstruct the keg that was poisoned. For example, if our sequence is 10321 , the poisoned keg was 1 + 2 · 4 1 +3 · 4 2 +0 · 4 3 +1 · 4 4 = 313 . We have now created a bijection between base 4 expansions of length 5 and the keg labels, so we can test up to n = 4 5 = 1024 kegs.

## 903 6 Die Stopper

Company : Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

A standard fair 6 -sided die is rolled up to (and including) when the first 6 is rolled. Find the probability that the sum of all upfaces viewed before stopping is even.

## Explanation:

Including or excluding the 6 doesn't matter, as adding 6 does not change the parity of the overall sum. Let p be this probability. We condition on the first roll. If the first roll is a 6 , then we have an even sum with probability 1 . If the first roll is a 2 or 4 , then the sum of all other terms must be even, occurring with probability p . If the first roll is odd, then the sum of the other rolls must be odd, occurring with probability 1 -p . Writing this out with Law of Total Probability, we see that

$$p = \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot 1 + \frac { 1 } { 3 } \cdot p + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot ( 1 - p )$$

Solving this yields p = 4 7 .