## Prompt:

Suppose you have a fair 20 -sided die. You must select a number of times to re-roll the die (or to not re-roll) before seeing any of the outcomes. However, each re-roll costs $1 . When the rolling process is complete, you receive $ M , where M is the maximum value that appeared among all your rolls. Assuming you re-roll an optimal amount of times, find the expected profit.

## Explanation:

Let us find the expected profit when we have n total rolls i.e. n -1 re-rolls. Our profit after n rolls would be P n = max { X 1 , . . . , X n } -( n -1) , as we are paid the maximum of the n rolls and we pay n -1 for the re-rolls. For convenience, let M n = max { X 1 , . . . , X n } . We can use the property for non-negative integervalued random variables that E [ X ] = ∞ ∑ k =1 P [ X ≥ k ] . As the largest possible value is 20 , we can say that

$$\mathbb { E } [ M _ { n } ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 2 0 } \mathbb { P } [ M _ { n } \geq k ] .$$

To evaluate P [ M n ≥ k ] , it is easier to evaluate via the complement, as the maximum being less than a certain value means all of them are less than that value, and then we can use independence. Namely, as M n is integervalued, P [ M n ≥ k ] = 1 -P [ M n &lt; k ] = 1 -P [ M n ≤ k -1] . M n being at most k -1 means all of X 1 , . . . , X n are at most k -1 . The probability this occurs for each roll is k -1 20 . Therefore, P [ M n ≥ k ] = 1 -( k -1 20 ) n . Plugging this in,

$$\mathbb { E } [ M _ { n } ] = & \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 2 0 } \left ( 1 - \left ( \frac { k - 1 } { 2 0 } \right ) ^ { n } \right ) = 2 0 - \frac { 1 } { 2 0 ^ { n } } \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { 1 9 } k ^ { n } \\ & \quad \cdot \cdot \cdot \quad 1 \colon k ^ { n } = 1 \cdot 1 \cdot N \\$$

The summation comes from an index shift by 1 . Now, we have that

$$\mathbb { E } [ P _ { n } ] = \mathbb { E } [ M _ { n } ] - ( n - 1 ) = ( 2 1 - n ) - \frac { 1 } { 2 0 ^ { n } } \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { 1 9 } k ^ { n }$$

Our objective is to maximize this value. We can note that E [ M n -M n -1 ] , the increase in our expected value of consecutive roll numbers, decreases as n increases. This is because the maximum grows with smaller and smaller probabilities each time. Therefore, if we can find where E [ P n ] starts to decrease, we have found our maximum, as it will never rise after.

The first few values by direct substitution and evaluating using our known summation formulas are E [ P 1 ] = 21 2 , E [ P 2 ] = 513 40 , E [ P 3 ] = 1079 80 , E [ P 4 ] = 1078667 80000 . Note that E [ P 4 ] &lt; E [ P 3 ] , as 1079000 &gt; 1078667 . Therefore, we should have 3 total rolls (so 2 rerolls). This yields expected profit of 1079 80 .

## 137 Socks and Shelves

Company : SIG