everyone's utility for money is linear in the range $0 to $10 .)

Note: A pure Nash equilibrium means the strategy of each player must choose a single bid value with probability 1 (e.g. a player's strategy cannot be to bid 3 with probability 0 . 4 and bid 4 with probability 0 . 6 ).

## Explanation:

Let's first simplify the valuation of the chest, since we are interested in Nash equilibria we are interested in a set of strategies such that a single person cannot increase their expected value from the chest when everyone uses the Nash strategy. Therefore, we can simply think of the chest containing $10 since this is the expected number of heads. Now we begin with the observation that if one person submits a $10 bid, then all 10 players at best will have a 0 EV strategy. It is not hard to see the person bidding $10 will be 0 EV since the chest is $10 in expectation. As for the remaining 9 people, if any of them bid less than $10 , they don't win or lose anything since the chest goes to the $10 bidder and their bid is returned. If they bid exactly $10 then again this is 0 EV, and if they bid any more than $10 their EV is negative so at best the remaining 9 people can do a 0 EV strategy.

However, it might be in the interest of a person bidding $10 to decrease their bid. Consider a strategy where all 9 people will bid $9 , what should the last person do to maximize their EV? Bidding $10 here is 0 EV as discussed before, but bidding $9 is actually positive EV since there is a 1 10 probability their $9 bid wins the chest worth $10 for netting them a $1 profit. This motivates our first statement.

Claim: All people bidding $9 is a Nash Equilibrium.

Proof: The expectation of this strategy for a given person is $0 . 1 as shown above. A given person cannot exceed this in expectation since bidding any higher will result in a zero or negative expectation and bidding any lower will result in zero expectation since they will never win the auction due to the other people bidding $9 .

Now, we begin to generalize. Let's consider counting the number of Nash Equilibrium by the number of people who are bidding $10 . If there are only 0 people bidding $10 , then the only Nash Equilibrium that can exist is when all bid $9 , if there was someone who was not bidding $9 then they could increase their expectation by bidding $9 . If there is only 1 person bidding $10 , then no such Nash equilibrium can exist since this person can increase their expectation by bidding $9 .