this to obtain that there are

$$\sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \i o r \left ( \frac { n } { 2 ^ { k } } \right )$$

trailing zeroes in binary for n ! . Note that this sum is finite since eventually 2 k &gt; n , so the floor will become 0 . With n = 142 , we get

$$\sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \text {floor} \left ( \frac { 1 4 2 } { 2 ^ { k } } \right ) = 7 1 + 3 5 + 1 7 + 8 + 4 + 2 + 1 = 1 3 8$$

## 727 Base Exponent Square

Company : WorldQuant

## Prompt:

How many integers 100 ≤ k ≤ 400 are such that k k is a perfect square?

## Explanation:

We know that √ k k = k k 2 by basic algebra. Therefore, if k is even, k 2 is an integer, so if k is even, this works. This allows 151 integers. Furthermore, if k is a perfect square, then k = n 2 for some integer n , so √ k k = √ ( n 2 ) n 2 = √ n 2 n 2 = n n 2 , which is an integer. Therefore, odd perfect squares are not accounted for yet, so we can add those in. Namely, these are 11 2 , 13 2 , 15 2 , 17 2 , and 19 2 . This allows 5 more possibilities, so our total answer is 151 + 5 = 156 .

## 728 Three Sides

Company : None

## Prompt:

On average, how many tosses of a fair coin does it take until three heads or three tails are observed, consecutive or otherwise?

## Explanation:

In order to observe three heads or three tails, at least three tosses must occur but no more than five tosses can occur. The game ends with three tosses if you observe HHH or TTT, each of which occurs with probability 1 8 , yielding a probability of 1 4 . The game ends with four tosses if we begin with a permutation of HHT and end with an H, or if we begin with a permutation of TTH and end with a T. There are six total possibilities, each of which occurs with probability 1 16 , yielding a probability of 3 8 . The game ends with five tosses if we begin with a permutation of HHTT (the last toss will end the game regardless). There are six total possibilities, each of which occurs with probability 1 16 , yielding a probability of 3 8 . The expected value is thus: