Putting this all together, our probability is 368640 ( 416 3 ) = 768 24817

## 431 Minecraft Mine

Company : JP Morgan, WorldQuant

## Prompt:

Suppose that Steve in Minecraft is trapped in a dungeon and has a diamond pickaxe. There are 3 paths that he can take: Path 1 leads back to his original position after 2 days. Path 2 leads back to his original position after 4 days. Path 3 leads him to the surface after 8 days. Steve selects doors completely at random and independently between selections. Let N be the number of times Steve must select a door before reaching safety and T be the total amount of time it takes for Steve to get out. Furthermore, let X i represent the amount of time that Steve takes to explore the path chosen at the i th turn. Let A n = E [ T | N = n ] and B n = E [ n ∑ k =1 X i ] Find lim n →∞ A n B n . If the limit doesn't exist, enter -1 .

## Explanation:

We have that T = N ∑ i =1 X i , where X i is the time spent on the i th selection of tunnel. This is because Steve has to do N trials to escape, since N is the number of trials needed before he gets out. We just have to take the average of the three times spent going down the three paths to get E [ X i ] , as they are equally likely. Thus,

$$\mathbb { E } [ X _ { i } ] = \frac { 2 + 4 + 8 } { 3 } = \frac { 1 4 } { 3 }$$

This directly implies that B n = 14 3 n by linearity of expectation.

To find A n , if we have that N = n , that means on the first n -1 runs of the tunnel, we have that Steve took either path 1 or 2 instead of 3, and then on the n th run, he chooses path 3. We thus have that

/negationslash

These conditional expectations are equivalent because we have that X i = 8 corresponds to selecting path 3. Thus, simplifying the conditional expectation, we have that this is equivalent to n -1 ∑ i =1 E [ X i | X i = 8] + 8 by linearity. The expectation in the sum is just the conditional expectation of X i given that it is either 2 or 4 . Since these occur with equal probability, the conditional expectation inside the expectation is just 3 . Since

$$\mathbb { E } [ T \, | \, N = n ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n - 1 } X _ { i } + X _ { n } \, \Big | \, X _ { i } \neq 8 , 1 \leq i \leq n - 1 , X _ { n } = 8 \right ] \\ \intertext { t i d i a n d e x t a t i o n s a r e q u i v a l e n t b e c u a s e w h a v e t h a X _ { i } = 8 \, c o r r o s p o d s to s e l i t i o n }$$

/negationslash