Now, let's write the expected payoff as a function of n . If we accept any value at least n , then the expected value we roll given we accept is 20 + n 2 . There are 21 -n values that are at least value n , so the probability on each roll that we obtain a value at least n is 21 -n 20 . As this probability is constant between rolls, the expected number of terms of obtain a value at least n is 20 21 -n . However, we now must claim it after we obtain a roll satisfying this threshold, so the expected number of turns needed to roll and claim the money is 20 21 -n +1 . Therefore, on average, we are able to roll and claim the money 100 20 21 -n +1 times in the game, as it takes us that many turns on average to roll and claim and we have 100 total turns. Lastly, this implies our expected payout is f ( n ) = 100 20 21 -n +1 · 20 + n 2 , as we multiply the expected number of times we are paid by the expected payout per time.

To find the n maximizing this, one can treat f as continuous and use the derivative of it to find the optimal n . The details of taking the derivative messy and not enlightening, so the steps are excluded. However, after using the basic rules and simplifying,

$$f ^ { \prime } ( n ) = \frac { 5 0 } { ( n - 4 1 ) ^ { 2 } } \cdot ( n ^ { 2 } - 8 2 n + 4 6 1 ) = 0$$

The roots of the polynomial are n 1 , 2 = 41 ± 2 √ 305 . The root adding 2 √ 305 is larger than 20 , so n ∗ = 41 -2 √ 305 must be the maximizer. As 17 &lt; √ 305 &lt; 18 and our optimal n must be an integer, we can test n = 5 , 6 , 7 to see which gives us the largest expected payout.

Plugging all three of these in reveals n = 6 maximizes f ( n ) with payout 3900 7 .

## 993 Subsequent First Ace

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

A deck is well-shuffled and cards are dealt out from the top one-by-one. The first ace is the 27 th card dealt. Find the probability that the card right after this ace is the 2 of hearts.

## Explanation:

The denominator is the number of ways to obtain the first ace as the 27 th card dealt. In particular, we permute 26 of the 48 non-aces to the first 26 spots, which can be done in P (48 , 26) ways. Then, we fix the