## Explanation:

We can more generally consider this for a radical of the form √ n ( n +1)( n +2)( n +3) + 1 and plug in n = 120 to get the result. The key trick here is to get a common midpoint. In particular, we can write this as

$$\sqrt { ( m - 3 / 2 ) ( m - 1 / 2 ) ( m + 1 / 2 ) ( m + 3 / 2 ) + 1 } \\ \\$$

where m = n +3 / 2 . We want to write it in this form because now we can use the difference of squares formula to reduce this. In particular, the interior becomes ( m 2 -1 / 4)( m 2 -9 / 4) + 1 = m 4 -5 2 m 2 + 25 16 = ( m 2 -5 4 ) 2 . This implies that the original expression is equal to m 2 -5 4 , where m = 3 2 + n . Plugging back in n , we get

$$m ^ { 2 } - \frac { 5 } { 4 } = \left ( n + \frac { 3 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { 2 } - \frac { 5 } { 4 } = n ^ { 2 } + 3 n + 1$$

Plugging in n = 120 into this expression, we have that our answer is

$$1 2 0 ^ { 2 } + 3 \cdot 1 2 0 + 1 = 1 4 7 6 1$$

## 1057 First Quarter

Company : JP Morgan

## Prompt:

You play a game with a friend. You both take turns to put a quarter on a round table (the table can be any size, but must be of symmetrical shape). The goal is to cover the table up with quarters. Quarters can't overlap with other quarters. A player loses when there's no place for them to put down a quarter. Should you be the first person to play? Answer 1 if yes and 2 if no.

## Explanation:

You should go first, as you will want to put your quarter right in the center. Afterwards, the symmetry of the table implies that there will be only an even number of places left to put the quarters. Therefore, your opponent will be first to be unable to place a quarter.

## 1058 Paired Pumpkins I

Company : Jane Street, SIG

## Prompt:

Dracula has 3 pumpkins, labeled 1 -3 . He knows the mass of each pair of pumpkins is (in kgs) is 19 , 21 , and 28 . Let w 1 , w 2 , and w 3 be the weights of the three pumpkins. If possible, find w 2 1 + w 2 2 + w 2 3 . If this is impossible, enter -1 .