## Prompt:

Flip 98 fair coins, one double-headed coin, and 1 double-tailed coin and observe the first coin tossed. A coin is selected uniformly at random and you see it shows heads. What is the probability that this coin is the double-headed coin?

## Explanation:

Let D be the event that we select the double-headed coin and H be the event that the coin showed heads. We want P [ D | H ] . By Bayes' Rule, we have that P [ D | H ] = P [ H | D ] P [ D ] P [ H ] . For the denominator, we should condition on the ways a head could be obtained. There are three types of coins: the fair coins, the double-headed coin, and the double-tailed coin. Let F be the event of selecting a fair coin and T be the event of selecting the double-tailed coin. We have that P [ H | T ] = 0 since this coin has no heads on it. We know P [ H | F ] = 1 2 since it is fair and P [ F ] = 98 100 since 98 of the coins are fair. Lastly, P [ H | D ] = 1 since both sides are heads and P [ D ] = 1 100 as there is only 1 of them. Combining all of this,

$$\mathbb { P } [ D \, | \, H ] = \frac { \frac { 1 } { 1 0 0 } \cdot 1 } { \frac { 1 } { 1 0 0 } \cdot 1 + \frac { 9 8 } { 1 0 0 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } + 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 5 0 }$$

## 330 Matrix Editor

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose you start with the 2 × 2 identity matrix I 2 . At each step, select one of the four elements of the matrix uniformly at random. If the element you select is a 1 , change it to 0 . If the element you select is a 0 , change it to 1 . Find the expected number of steps needed to obtain a singular matrix (i.e. the determinant is 0).

## Explanation:

Let I be the number of steps needed to obtain a singular matrix starting from the identity matrix. This value depends on which value in our matrix is edited first, so let's apply Law of Total Expectation to what value is edited first.

If we select one of the diagonal elements, then it is easy to verify we obtain a singular matrix. Otherwise, if we select one of the off-diagonal elements, we end up with either [ 1 1 0 1 ] or [ 1 0 1 1 ] . However, a property of determinants is that for any square matrix A , det ( A ) = det ( A T ) . Additionally, we select the elements uniformly at random, so these matrix will have the same expected time until they reach a singular matrix.