## Explanation:

There are ( 5 3 ) = 10 sequences of length 5 containing exactly three heads. Therefore, the probability of this particular sequence is 1 10 , as all are equally likely.

## 1119 Number 50

Company : None

## Prompt:

How many 10 digit numbers are there whose digits are prime and whose product of its digits is exactly 100000?

## Explanation:

The prime factorization of 10 5 = 2 5 · 5 5 . This implies that to obtain a product that ends in 5 zeroes, we must have 5 of each of the digits 2 and 5 in our number. However, we only have 10 spots total. Therefore, this means our number must just have 5 of each of those two digits. This implies that we just need to count the ways to distribute 5 of each of 2 and 5 to 10 blanks. Since each are indistinguishable, choosing the locations of one type of digits fixes the other, so the answer is ( 10 5 ) = 252 .

## 1120 Boys with Girls

Company :

## Prompt:

There are 15 boys and 10 girls in a class. They line up in a row in random order. What is the expected amount of times a boy and a girl are standing next to each other? Ex: BGBBGGGBGGBBBBG has 7 occurrences where a boy and girl are next to each other.

## Explanation:

Let E be the expected number of occurances where a boy and girl are standing next to eachother. To solve for a more general case, let m be the number of boys and n be the number of girls. There are m + n -1 total spaces a boy could be next to a girl. Thus E = ( m + n -1) · P where P is the probability for each of these spots to have a boy next to a girl.

To find P , if we know a boy is next to a girl, there are ( n + m -2 n -1 ) ways to arrange the rest of the boys and girls. We then need to multiply this value by 2 to account of the different orders of the selected couple