## 951 Circular Partition

Company : SIG, Virtu Financial

## Prompt:

Suppose X 1 , X 2 , X 3 , and X 4 are all independent random points selected uniformly from the perimeter of the unit circle. Draw a chord between X 1 and X 2 . Draw another chord between X 3 and X 4 . Find the expected number of disjoint regions the circle is partitioned into.

## Explanation:

Fix X 1 as the "smallest" point in the sense of smallest angle CCW from the origin. This doesn't matter since all of them are independent and uniform on the perimeter. If X 2 is the smallest (in terms of CCW angle from (1 , 0) ) among X 2 , X 3 , and X 4 , then we get 3 distinct regions, as the chords do not intersect. If X 2 is the median of the remaining 3 , then we get 4 regions, as there is an intersection. If X 2 is the largest among the remaining 3 , there is no intersection of chords, so we have 3 regions. As all orderings occur with equal probability, there are 3 regions with probability 2 3 and 4 regions with probability 1 3 , so the expected number is

## 952 Wedding Handshakes

Company : Blackedge Capital

## Prompt:

At a wedding of 100 people, each person shakes hands with every other person once. How many handshakes occur in total?

## Explanation:

There are a couple ways to do this question. The fastest method is to realize that ( 100 2 ) perfectly models this situation as we see how many different pairs of people can be chosen from the 100 . This results in the answer of 4950 . The other method is to start with a smaller scenario. Start with 1 person. Every time another person joins the wedding, they have to shake hands with the current number of guests. This means the total number of handshakes is the integer sums from 1 to 99 . There are 49 sets of 100 within this sum and an extra 50 which results in a total of 4950 .

## 953 Couple Pairs

Company :

$$3 \cdot \frac { 2 } { 3 } + 4 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 3 } = \frac { 1 0 } { 3 }$$