## 233 Paper Draw

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

You have two urns presented to you. One of them has the values 1 -8 written on 8 different pieces of paper. The other one only has the values 1 and 2 on 4 pieces of paper each. You select one urn uniformly at random and then select a piece of paper from it uniformly at random. You see that the paper selected has the value 2 on it. You then replace the paper in the urn you selected from. If you select from the same urn 40 more times with replacement between trials, find the expected number of times 2 would appear in these 40 draws.

## Explanation:

Since there are 4 pieces of paper labelled 2 in the second urn and only 1 piece labelled 2 in the first, the probability we selected the second urn is 4 5 . This is directly by Bayes' rule. Given we selected this urn, we would expect to see the value 2 appear 1 2 · 40 = 20 times, as there is probability 1 2 per selection it appears in this urn. If we selected the other urn, which occurs with probability 1 5 , then we would expect to see the value 2 to appear 1 8 · 40 = 5 times. Therefore, by the Law of Total Expectation, the expected number of times we see the value 2 is

## 234 Wandering Ant II

Company : None

## Prompt:

An ant starts at the origin in the plane. At each step, with probability 1 4 , the ant will move one unit north, south, east, or west. Find the expected number of steps until the ant first hits the square with vertices at ( ± 2 , ± 2) .

## Explanation:

Let N ( a,b ) be the number of steps starting from ( a, b ) needed to reach the square boundary. We want E [ N (0 , 0 ] . We use Law of Total Expectation here to condition on the first step and use the symmetry of our random walk to simplify this problem greatly.

Starting from the origin, the ant moves to ( ± 1 , 0) or (0 , ± 1) all with equal probability. However, by the symmetry of our square and our walk,

$$\mathbb { E } [ N _ { ( 0 , 1 ) } ] = \mathbb { E } [ N _ { ( 0 , - 1 ) } ] = \mathbb { E } [ N _ { ( 1 , 0 ) } ] = \mathbb { E } [ N _ { ( - 1 , 0 ) } ] . \text { There for, by Law of Total Expectation,}$$

$$\frac { 4 } { 5 } \cdot 2 0 + \frac { 1 } { 5 } \cdot 5 = 1 7$$