## Explanation:

We are going to use a generalization of the memorylessness property for exponential random variables called the strong memorylessness property, which states that if A and B are independent non-negative random variables that are almost surely finite and X ∼ Exp ( λ ) , then P [ X &gt; A + B | X &gt; A ] = P [ X &gt; B ] . Note that this is not just the memorylessness property itself, as that deals with deterministic (non-random) times. Proving this is very similar to how you prove the standard memorylessness property. Assuming this and the standard property of exponentials that if X 1 ∼ Exp ( λ 1 ) and X 2 ∼ Exp ( λ 2 ) , P [ X 1 &gt; X 2 ] = λ 2 λ 1 + λ 2 , we can complete this question fairly easily. For notation, let S n = n ∑ i =1 T i . Namely, we have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ X > S _ { 1 0 } ] = \mathbb { P } [ X > S _ { 1 0 } \ | \ X > S _ { 9 } ] \mathbb { P } [ X > S _ { 9 } ] = \mathbb { P } [ X > S _ { 9 } + T _ { 1 0 } \ | \ X > S _ { 9 } ] \mathbb { P } [ X > S _ { 9 } ] = \mathbb { P } [ X > T _ { 1 0 } ] \mathbb { P } [ X > S _ { 9 } ]$$

The last equality comes from the strong memorylessness. Iterating this, we have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ X > S _ { 1 0 } ] = \mathbb { P } [ X > T _ { 1 0 } ] \dots \mathbb { P } [ X > T _ { 1 } ] = ( \mathbb { P } [ X > T _ { 1 } ] ) ^ { 1 0 }$$

The last equality here comes from the fact that each of the T i are IID. Therefore, using the other property we stated at the beginning,

$$\mathbb { P } [ T _ { 1 } < X ] = \frac { 1 / 1 0 } { 1 / 1 0 + 1 / 9 0 } = \frac { 9 } { 1 0 }$$

Therefore, q = 9 10 and b = 10 , so qb = 9 .

## 874 Colorful Candy

Company :

## Prompt:

A bag of 10 candies has 6 blue, 2 red, 1 green, and 1 yellow candies. 3 candies are randomly selected. Find the expected number of colors among the selected candies.

## Explanation:

Label the colors 1 -4 , and let C i be the indicator that color i is in our selection. Then T = C 1 + · · · + C 4 gives the total number of colors in our selection. By linearity of expectation, E [ T ] = 4 ∑ i =1 E [ C i ] . We evaluate E [ C i ] in a unified manner. E [ C i ] is just the probability color i is somewhere in our draws, which is just 1 -the probability is in none of the draws.

Suppose color i has k candies of that color from the 10 . Then there are ( 10 3 ) ways to pick 3 candies