We conclude

## 654 Infected Dinner I

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

There are 1000 people having dinner at a grand hall. One of them is known to be sick, while the other 999 are healthy. Each minute, each person talks to one other person in the room at random. There is no limit on how many times a person talks to another person. If one is sick and one is healthy, the healthy person is infected and becomes sick. Once a person becomes sick, they are assumed to be sick for the rest of the dinner. Find the minimum amount of time (in minutes) until every person in the hall becomes sick.

## Explanation:

The minimum amount of time would correspond to the most people becoming infected the fastest. This would be when each infected person talks to a healthy person at every step. After 1 minute, there would be 2 infected people. After 2 minutes, there would be 4 infected people, as each of the 2 infected people talks to someone healthy. In general, after n minutes, there would be 2 n infected people. We now just have to find the minimum n such that 2 n &gt; 1000 , which is just n = 10 .

## 655 Confused Ant I

Company : Akuna, Jane Street, WorldQuant

## Prompt:

An ant is standing on one vertex of a cube and can only walk along the edges. The ant is confused and moves randomly along the edges at random. How many edges, on average, will the ant travel to reach the opposite vertex of the cube?

## Explanation:

There are a total of eight vertices: one is the starting vertex denoted v 0 , three are the vertices adjacent to the starting vertex denoted v 1 , three are the vertices adjacent to the ending vertex denoted v 2 , and one is the ending vertex denoted v 3 . Let E [ v i ] be the expected number of edges travelled to arrive at v 3 from v i . This problem has now been set up as calculating the expecting hitting time of a state within a Markov chain:

$$\frac { a } { b } = \frac { 1 2 \cdot \left ( \begin{matrix} 8 \\ 5 \end{matrix} \right ) } { \left ( \begin{matrix} 8 \\ 4 \end{matrix} \right ) } \\ = \frac { 1 2 \cdot 5 6 } { 7 0 } \\ = \frac { 4 8 } { 5 }$$