{ X ≤ Y ≤ 3 X } in [0 , 1] 2 is a triangle that takes up all the space in the upper half except for the triangle with vertices (0 , 0) , (0 , 1) , and ( 1 3 , 1 ) . The area of this triangle is 1 6 by the triangle area formula, so the area of our shaded region is 1 3 . Multiplying by 2 to account for the case when Y ≤ X , our answer for the probability is 2 3 .

## 249 Double Data Trouble IV

Company : Two Sigma

## Prompt:

Suppose that you run linear regression on some dataset and obtain an R 2 value of 0 . 48 . If you were to run linear regression again on the dataset where you double all of the values of each point in the dataset, what would R 2 be? If it can't be determined, enter -1 .

## Explanation:

Recall that R 2 = 1 -SSE SST . With each of the data points doubled, the new SSE is 4 times as large as it was before. This is because we are summing squared errors and we have doubled each of the points. Therefore, the errors (in magnitude) are doubled. Once we square these, the SSE would then be 4 times as large. For this same reason, SST also is quadrupled. Accordingly, the ratio SSE SST is unchanged, meaning that R 2 is unchanged from before.

## 250 Dog Days

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Every day is either good (G) or bad (B). If today was G, tomorrow is also G with probability 3 5 . If today was B, tomorrow is also B with probability 7 10 . You woke up to find that today is a bad day. Find the expected number of days until another bad day.

## Explanation:

Let T be the number of days until another bad day and X 1 be the outcome of the first day since today. Then E B [ T ] = E B [ T | B ] P B [ B ] + E B [ T | G ] P B [ G ] . The subscript B is to denote that we start on a bad day. We have that P B [ B ] = 7 10 , so P B [ G ] = 3 10 . Then, E B [ T | G ] = 1 + E G [ T ] , as we take one step and then find the expected number of days starting from a good day until a bad day. Then, E B [ T | B ] = 1 , as it takes just 1 day to get another bad day if the first day after is bad. Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } _ { B } [ T ] = ( 1 + \mathbb { E } _ { G } [ T ] ) \cdot \frac { 3 } { 1 0 } + 1 \cdot \frac { 7 } { 1 0 } = 1 + \frac { 3 } { 1 0 } \cdot \mathbb { E } _ { G } [ T ]$$