our integral of interest is E [ ( X -µ σ X ) 3 ] = 1 σ 3 X ∫ R ( x -µ ) 3 · λ 2 e -λ | x -µ | dx . The first simplification that we do is to let u = x -µ so that du = dx and the bounds are still ± ∞ . This new integral becomes

$$\frac { \lambda } { 2 \sigma _ { X } ^ { 3 } } \int _ { \mathbb { R } } u ^ { 3 } e ^ { - \lambda | u | } d u$$

This is where the magic takes place. Note that u 3 e -λ | u | is odd about u = 0 and we are integrating over a symmetric integral about 0 (namely, the real line). We also know that this integral must be finite since we assume the first three moments of X are finite. Therefore, as this integrand is odd and finite about a symmetric integral, the integral must be 0 .

## 1087 20-30 Die Split I

Company : DRW, Jane Street

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob have fair 30 -sided and 20 -sided dice, respectively. Both roll their die, and the person with the higher value showing wins. The loser must pay the winner the value showing on the winner's die. In the event of a tie, Bob is the winner. Find the expected payout for Alice.

## Explanation:

Let P be the payout, while A and B are the values Alice and Bob roll. The key here is to condition on whether or not A ≤ 20 . Namely, by Law of Total Expectation, we have that

$$\mathbb { E } [ P ] = \mathbb { E } [ P \, | \, A \leq 2 0 ] \mathbb { P } [ A \leq 2 0 ] + \mathbb { E } [ P \, | \, A > 2 0 ] \mathbb { P } [ A > 2 0 ]$$

We quickly see that P [ A ≤ 20] = 2 3 , as this accounts for 20 of the 30 values that can appear. The expected payout for Alice in this case would be 0 if ties were not settled in Bob's favor. Ties happen with probability 1 20 in this case, as the first roll is completely arbitrary and the second roll just needs to match the first value. Given a tie occurs, it is equally likely to be any of the 20 values. Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } [ P \, | \, A \leq 2 0 ] = - \frac { 1 + 2 0 } { 2 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 0 } = - \frac { 2 1 } { 4 0 }$$

If A &gt; 20 , occurring with probability 1 3 , then Alice is guaranteed to win. Her expected payout in this case then is 21 + 30 2 = 51 2 , as it is equally-likely to be any of the values 21 -30 given that she is larger than 20 . Combining this, we see that

$$\mathbb { E } [ P ] = - \frac { 2 1 } { 4 0 } \cdot \frac { 2 } { 3 } + \frac { 5 1 } { 2 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 3 } = 8 . 1 5$$