## Prompt:

Consider a random walk on a discrete line of 11 points ( 0 through 10 ). Supposed you have equal probability of stepping up or down at each movement. If you reach either 10 or 0 you must stop. If you start at point 6 , what is the probability that you arrive at 10 before you arrive at 0 ?

## Explanation:

This is just a standard symmetric random walk problem. The probability that 10 is hit before 0 starting at 6 is just 6 10 by considering the ratio of the distance from the lower boundary (0) to our starting position (6) to the entire length of our region (10) .

## 680 Cone Combo

Company : None

## Prompt:

A point is uniformly at random selected from a cone with radius 1 and height 2 . Find the probability that the point is at most a height 1 away from the circular base.

## Explanation:

From geometry, we know that the volume of a cone with height h and base radius r is 1 3 π r 2 h . Therefore, as r = 1 and h = 2 here, the volume of this cone is 2 π 3 . We also know that the radius decreases linearly with height from the bottom. In other words, we know that the radius as a function of the height x from the base, say r ( x ) , is linear. This means it is in the form r ( x ) = c 0 + c 1 x . Since r (0) = 1 (we are at the base) and r (2) = 0 (we are at the tip), we get that r ( x ) = 1 -x 2 by solving the resultant linear system.

Consider the complement of our event, which is that we are above a height 1 from the base. This region is another conic region. However, the base radius is now 1 -1 2 = 1 2 and our height is 1 , so the volume of the conic region that is complementary to our region of interest is 1 3 · π ( 1 2 ) 2 · 1 = π 12 . Therefore, as our selection of the point is uniform throughout the volume of the cone, the probability that we select a point above height 1 from the base is 1 12 2 3 = 1 8 . Therefore, the probability of the event we are interested in is 7 8 .

## 681 Theater Seating

Company : None