With probability 1 / 2 , we selected A . In this case, we need to find the expected number of cards until a K appears. There are now 4 dividers (corresponding to the 4 K ) and 52 -44 / 9 -1 -4 = 379 / 9 cards left in the deck on average. The 4 dividers split up our remaining deck into 5 equally-sized regions in expectation, so there are 379 / 45 cards before the first K on average. Then, we need to add in 1 more back for selecting the K , so our conditional expectation here is 424 / 45 .

Putting it all together, our final answer is

$$\frac { 4 4 } { 9 } + 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \frac { 4 2 4 } { 4 5 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \frac { 4 2 4 } { 7 2 } = \frac { 1 2 1 9 } { 9 0 } \approx 1 3 . 5 4$$

## 491 Deriving Put-Call Parity II

Company :

## Prompt:

You have access to the underlying S , which has an initial price S 0 = 8 , bonds that pay 1 at timeT , where T = 1 . The interest rates are 0 . 02 , continuously compounded. Finally, you have access to three different put options of varying strikes. The puts are given in the format of ( Strike K, Price C 0 )

(5 , 0 . 4)

(10 , 3 . 2)

(15 , 5 . 6)

Find the time0 price of a call option with strike K = 10 . Round to two decimal points.

## Explanation:

We know that the timeT payout of a call-option is max( S T -K, 0) . The put-option has timeT payout of max( K -S T , 0) . Using the underlying, the bond, and the put, we can see that we have

$$\max ( S _ { T } - K , 0 ) = S _ { T } - K + \max ( K - S _ { T } , 0 )$$

In other words, a call option is equivalent to going long 1 unit of the underlying, borrowing K units of the bond, and long 1 unit of the put. This then gives us V 0 = 8 -10 e -. 02 +3 . 2 = 1 . 40

Intuitively, this also makes sense. The current price of the underlying is 8 while the strike is 10 . So, our puts are in-the-money while the calls are out-of-the-money. In other words, the puts should have more value than the calls (which we indeed see).