If there are only 2 people bidding $10 , then we claim this is a Nash equilibrium because everyone's strategy has an expected value of 0 and no one can gain by deviating. In fact, this logic holds as long as there are at least 2 people bidding $10 . Therefore, to count the total number of strategies let us reframe the problem. Let's denote a strategy as a 10-d tuple so S = { b 1 , b 2 , ..., b 10 } where b i denotes the i -th person's bid meaning b i ∈ { $0 , $1 , ..., $10 } . To count the number of Nash Equilibria which correspond to at least 2 people bidding $10 we count the complement. That is, the number of Nash Equilibria with at least 2 people bidding ten = 11 10 ︸︷︷︸ all strategies -10 10 ︸︷︷︸ no ten bids -( 10 1 ) 10 9 ︸ ︷︷ ︸ one ten bids = 5937424601 . Lastly, we must add one in the case of all bids being $9 giving us our final answer of 5937424602 .

## 202 Difference of Four

Company : None

## Prompt:

You roll three fair dice. What is the probability that the difference between the highest and lowest values rolled is exactly four?

## Explanation:

In order for the difference to be exactly four, the values must either have a maximum of 6 and a minimum of 2, or a maximum of 5 and a minimum of 1. Let us consider these cases separately. For the first case, two of the numbers are 6 and 2. The third number can be 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6. Thus, the unordered outcomes are 226, 236, 246, 256, and 266. The first outcome has 3 orderings, the second has six orderings, the third has six orderings, the fourth has six orderings, and the fifth has three orderings. Each ordering has a probability 1 216 of occurring, so the total probability of this case is 3+6+6+6+3 216 = 24 216 . For the second case, two of the numbers are 5 and 1. The third number can be 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. Thus, the unordered outcomes are 115, 125, 135, 145, and 155. The first outcome has three orderings, the second outcome has six orderings, the third outcome has six orderings, the fourth outcome has six orderings, and the fifth outcome has three orderings. Each ordering has a probability 1 216 of occurring, so the total probability of this case is 3+6+6+6+3 216 = 24 216 . In total, the probability of yielding a difference between the highest and lowest values of exactly four is:

$$\frac { 2 4 + 2 4 } { 2 1 6 } = \frac { 2 } { 9 }$$

## 203 4 Before 2

Company : Goldman Sachs

## Prompt:

Jed is rolling two fair 6 -sided dice repeatedly. Find the probability that Jed obtains a sum of 4 before a sum of 2 ?