## 179 Game Arbitrage I

Company :

## Prompt:

Consider the following group with the following teams. The contracts are given in the format of (Team, Time-0 Price). The price of 0 . 67 means that if the team wins, you will get paid 1 . If the team loses, you will get paid 0 .

( Team 1 , 0 . 84)

( Team 2 , 0 . 73)

( Team 3 , 0 . 25)

( Team 4 , 0 . 15)

The group works as follows: 2 teams are guaranteed to make it out. Find the arbitrage. You are allowed to long or short contracts. You are also allowed to long or short bonds, which pay 1 at expiry. Assume interest rates are 0 , so Z 0 = 1 .

Give the answer in the form of the initial credit you will receive in the arbitrage.

## Explanation:

2

teams are guaranteed to make it out of the group. So, if we long every contract, we expect a payout of 2 . However, if we add the time0 price of the 4 teams, we get 1 . 97 &lt; 2 . So, there is an arbitrage opportunity.

Here, we long the undervalued item and short the overvalued item. 2 corresponds to the bank account. Since interest rates are 0 , we do not need to worry about discounting. We long 1 unit of every team and borrow 2 bonds. This gives us the following:

$$0 . 8 4 + 0 . 7 3 + 0 . 2 5 + 0 . 1 5 - 2 = - 0 . 0 3$$

So, we get an initial credit of 3 cents.

## 180 Duplicating Data

Company : None

## Prompt:

You use OLS regression model the relationship between news sentiment, X , and AAPL share price, Y , and find that Y = 156 . 3 + 10 . 21 X with a correlation coefficient of 0 . 78 . You duplicate the data and re-run the OLS regression. How much did the correlation coefficient, ρ , increase by?