## Prompt:

Alice and Bob are each given a coin. Each is allowed decide the probability of heads for their coin. Afterwards, they both flip their coins. If it comes up HH , Alice gives Bob $6 . If it comes up TT , Alice gives Bob $4 . Otherwise, Bob gives Alice $5 . However, Alice must tell Bob the success probability p 1 they have chosen before Bob decides. Suppose p 1 = 3 4 . The range of probabilities p 2 for which Bob has positive expected value on the game is in the form ( a, 1) , where a is a fraction in reduced form. Find a .

## Explanation:

Call Bob's success probability p 2 . Let's write out the expected value as a function of p 1 and p 2 . The probability of HH is p 1 p 2 . The probability of TT is (1 -p 1 )(1 -p 2 ) . The probability of TH or HT is p 1 (1 -p 2 ) + p 2 (1 -p 1 ) = p 1 + p 2 -2 p 1 p 2 . From Bob's perspective, the respective profits for each of these outcomes are 6 , 4 , and -5 . Therefore, the expected value is 6 p 1 p 2 +4(1 -p 1 )(1 -p 2 ) -5( p 1 + p 2 -2 p 1 p 2 ) = 6 p 1 p 2 +4 -4 p 1 -4 p 2 +4 p 1 p 2 -5 p 1 -5 p 2 +10 p 1 p 2 = 20 p 1 p 2 -9 p 2 -9 p 1 +4 . Factoring this a little bit, we have that this becomes (20 p 1 -9) p 2 +(4 -9 p 1 ) .

/negationslash

$$Now , \, \text {assuming that } p _ { 1 } \neq \frac { 9 } { 2 0 } \, ( \text {so that we can rearrange and divide} ) , \, \text { we get that } p _ { 2 } > \frac { 9 p _ { 1 } - 4 } { 2 0 p _ { 1 } - 9 } . \, \text { Letting} \\ p _ { 1 } = \frac { 3 } { 4 } , \, \text { we have that } p _ { 2 } > \frac { 1 1 } { 2 4 } , \, \text { so this is our answer.}$$

## 1047 Breaking Even

Company : None

## Prompt:

Julie and Judy bet on a series of 8 successive coin tosses. After each toss, assuming that both players have at least $1 , Julie gives Judy $1 if it is heads, and Judy gives Julie $1 if it is tails. They both start out with $4 each. Compute the probability that they break even.

## Explanation:

In order to break even after 8 rounds, Julie and Judy must (1) end up with $4 each, and (2) never reach $0 . To satisfy the first condition, the coin must end up as heads for 4 of the 8 tosses. The second condition is satisfied for any arrangement of 4 heads and 4 tails except for HHHHTTTT and TTTTHHHH , which is when Julie and Judy begin the fifth round with $0 . Hence, there are a total of ( 8 4 ) -2 possible head-tail arrangements such that Julie and Judy break even. Putting it all together, we find the probability of breaking even to be

$$\left [ \left ( \begin{matrix} 8 \\ 4 \end{matrix} \right ) - 2 \right ] \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { 8 } = \frac { 1 7 } { 6 4 }$$