This yields that

$$\frac { \partial } { \partial a } A ( a , b ) = - \frac { a ^ { 2 } + 2 b a - 1 0 0 b } { ( a + b ) ^ { 2 } } = 0 \iff a ^ { 2 } + 2 b a - 1 0 0 b = 0$$

Solving the above with the quadratic equation yields that a ∗ = -2 b ± √ 4 b 2 +400 b 2 . However, the -root results in a negative value, so a ∗ = √ b 2 +100 b -b is the best response for player A if player B puts b marbles in. Similarly, as this game is symmetric, the optimal response for player B if player A puts a marbles in is b ∗ = √ a 2 -100 a -a .

To find the optimal strategy for each player, this means that we need to find the combo ( a ∗ , b ∗ ) such that neither of the players can do better by adjusting their strategy. We already are aware from before that a ∗ = b ∗ by the symmetry of the game. Therefore, to solve for this, we just substitute in b as b ∗ = a ∗ in the first equation. This yields we can say that

$$a ^ { * } = \sqrt { ( a ^ { * } ) ^ { 2 } + 1 0 0 a ^ { * } - a ^ { * } } \, \Longleftrightarrow \, 4 ( a ^ { * } ) ^ { 2 } = ( a ^ { * } ) ^ { 2 } + 1 0 0 a ^ { * } \, \Longleftrightarrow \, a ^ { * } ( 3 a ^ { * } - 1 0 0 ) = 0 \, \Longleftrightarrow \, a ^ { * } = 0 , \frac { 1 0 0 } { 3 }$$

As 0 is not possible, we conclude that a ∗ = b ∗ = 100 3 is the optimal strategy. However, this is not actually possible, as our marbles must be an integer value. Therefore, we should test (33 , 33) and (34 , 34) to see if they are Nash equilibria.

For (33 , 33) , the expected payout for one draw for each player is 67 2 . One can check that by varying a and keeping b fi xed at 33 , player A can't do any better. Therefore, (33 , 33) is a Nash equilibrium. For (34 , 34) , the expected payout is 33 . However, one can also verify that the expected payout for (33 , 34) is also 33 . However, this can't be an equilibrium, as b should change to 33 marbles to yield higher expected payout. Thus, while (34 , 34) is also a Nash equilibrium, (33 , 33) is preferrable because of the higher expected payout. This means that the optimal strategy is for both players to place 33 marbles and have a total expected payout of 67 2 · 2 = 67 .

## 1056 Rowdy Root

Company :

## Prompt:

Evaluate √ 120 · 121 · 122 · 123 + 1 .