## Explanation:

Consider this game on the finite set { 1 , 2 , . . . , N } . We can quickly see that in this finite state game, the banker selecting uniformly at random is not optimal, as to maximize the expected payout, you would select N as your value and your expected payout on the game would be N .

What we want to do is find a distribution on the positive integers so that the expected payout from the banker is constant regardless of the value that he selects. This would be because of the fact that no matter which probability distribution you select, you would now have constant payout on the game, so you can't do any better by selecting another distribution. If N is the value the banker selects, to have constant expected payout per value, we would need a distribution with PMF in the form P [ N = n ] = C n 2 for positive integers n .

To find C , we note that ∞ ∑ n =1 P [ N = n ] = 1 , so C · ∞ ∑ n =1 1 n 2 = 1 . This sum here is well-known to evaluate to π 2 6 , so C = 6 π 2 . This PMF is actually known as the Zeta (2) distribution. The expected payout is therefore 6 π 2 for you, as any probability distribution you assign is just going to be weighting of 6 π 2 for each value conditional on selecting some value. Therefore, the answer is 12 to the question of interest.

## 593 Arbitrage Detective IV

Company :

## Prompt:

There are five options on the TSLA options chain right now, all of which are expiring at the end of the month, and with strikes 165 , 170 , 175 , 180 , and 185 . Suppose the put options respectively cost $9 , $12 , $14 , $14 . 5 , and $15 and the call options cost $15 , $14 , $13 , $12 , and $9 . Is there an arbitrage opportunity? If so, enter the minimum amount you are guaranteed to make, if no opportunity exists, enter -1 .

## Explanation:

We can see here, we have quite an unusual options chain we can take advantage of. As our chains are near inverses of each other, assume the underlying is selling at $175 . Usually, on a chain, when the strike of our call option increases, the call option's value approaches full value, meaning the difference between our prices should be close to the difference in our strike prices. In this example, as our call option increases in strike price, we would expect the prices to get increasingly farther away. In this case, the prices actually start converging, showing our chain is improperly formed.