## Explanation:

Let T be the total number of coin flips needed and X be the total number of heads that appear on the first flipping of the coins. Then E [ T ] = E [ E [ T | X ]] = ∑ 4 k =0 E [ T | X = k ] P [ X = k ] by Law of Total Expectation. X ∼ Binom ( 4 , 1 2 ) because X counts the number of heads appearing in 4 fl ips of a fair coin. To set our notation, let e i represent the additional number of flips needed to stop our process once we have i heads.

If X = 4 , then obviously we don't flip any coins again, so E [ T | X = 4] = 4 . This would mean e 4 = 0 .

If X = 3 , then we would be consider one heads and one tails. We should turn over the tails so that we have a guaranteed head i.e. we end up with either 3 or 4 heads after this process. Then, with equal probability, we would get a heads or tails on the remaining coin, so e 3 = 2 + 1 2 e 3 + 1 2 e 4 . Putting in e 4 = 0 yields that e 3 = 4 . This means E [ T | X = 3] = 8 .

If X = 2 , then we are considering 2 tails, meaning we turn one over and flip the other. This is exactly the same scenario as above, as we are guaranteed to have 3 or 4 heads after with the same probabilities, so e 2 = 4 as well. This means E [ T | X = 2] = 8 .

If X = 1 , then we consider 2 tails. We turn one over, and then we flip the other. We will end with either 2 or 3 heads after this iteration with equal probability. Therefore, e 1 = 2 + 1 2 e 2 + 1 2 e 3 . As e 2 = e 3 = 4 , e 1 = 6 . This means E [ T | X = 1] = 10 .

Lastly, if X = 0 , we just consider 2 tails one again. We turn one over, and then we flip the other. We will end with either 1 or 2 heads after this iteration with equal probability, so e 0 = 2 + 1 2 e 1 + 1 2 e 2 . Plugging in e 1 = 6 and e 2 = 4 yields e 0 = 7 , so E [ T | X = 0] = 11 .

Plugging the values and the PMF of X into our expression from the beginning, we get that

$$\mathbb { E } [ T ] = \frac { 1 } { 1 6 } \cdot 4 + \frac { 4 } { 1 6 } \cdot 8 + \frac { 6 } { 1 6 } \cdot 8 + \frac { 4 } { 1 6 } \cdot 1 0 + \frac { 1 } { 1 6 } \cdot 1 1 = \frac { 1 3 5 } { 1 6 }$$