## Prompt:

A shoe manufacturer offers rock climbing shoes in black, blue, and pink. Of the first 1000 shoes sold, 400 were black. Calculate the value of the appropriate test statistic to determine if customers have a preference for black rock climbing shoes. Assume random sampling, variance homogeneity, and that preference is approximately normally distributed.

## Explanation:

We are testing the null hypothesis H 0 : p = 1 3 against the alternative hypothesis H a : p &gt; 1 3 . The sample proportion ˆ p is 400 1000 = 0 . 4 for n = 1000 . The Z statistic can be calculated as:

$$Z = \frac { \hat { p } - p } { \sqrt { \frac { p ( 1 - p ) } { n } } } = \frac { 0 . 4 0 - 0 . 3 3 } { \sqrt { \frac { 0 . 3 3 ( 1 - 0 . 3 3 ) } { 1 0 0 0 } } } \approx 4 . 4 7$$

## 254 Uniform Equilibrium I

Company :

## Prompt:

Two players, say 1 and 2 , simultaneously pick real numbers in the interval [0 , 1] . The payoff of Player 1 (equal to the loss of Player 2 ) is the absolute distance between those numbers. Find the number of pure-strategy Nash equilbria.

## Explanation:

There can't be such a strategy. Suppose that player 1 picks 0 &lt; a &lt; 1 and player 2 picks 0 &lt; b &lt; 1 . Without loss of generality, say a &lt; b . Player 1 could then do better by selecting a/ 2 or Player 2 could do better by picking 1 + b 2 . If they are at the endpoints, then player 2 can do better by choosing anything that isn't 1 . Therefore, there is no such equilibria.

## 255 Good Grid I

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that two integers a and b are uniformly at random selected from S = { -10 , -9 , . . . , 9 , 10 } . Find the probability that max { 0 , a } = min { 0 , b } .