## Prompt:

A tower of 12 blocks tall is going to be comprised of either 1 -tall or 2 -tall red blocks. Assume you have at least 12 of each type of block. How many different tower configurations can be made?

## Explanation:

Let T n be the number of n -tall towers that can be made using these blocks. We know that the last block in the tower is either 1 -tall or 2 -tall. We condition on the two cases. If the last block is 1 -tall, then there are T n -1 valid towers stemming from this case. If the last block is 2 -tall, there are T n -2 valid towers stemming from this case. Therefore, we have the recurrence relation T n = T n -1 + T n -2 .

We need 2 initial conditions, as this is a second-order recurrence. We can clearly see that T 1 = 1 , as only a 1 -tall block works. Additionally, we see T 2 = 2 , as we either have a 2 -tall block or two 1 -tall blocks stacked. Now, we see that this is just the Fibonacci Sequence shifted up 1 term, as the Fibonacci sequence typically starts off with T 1 = T 2 = 1 . Therefore, T n = F n +1 . In particular, T 12 = F 13 = 233 by using the recurrence.

## 220 Compound Game

Company : None

## Prompt:

You are given a fair 6 -sided die and play the following game: You are paid the upface of every roll. If you roll an odd value, the game is over. If you roll an even value, you flip a fair coin. If it lands on tails, the game is over. If it lands on heads, you roll again and repeat the same coin flip process after your roll. Find the expected payout from this game.

## Explanation:

Let T be the total payout and X 1 be your first roll. Since our potential future outcomes depend on whether or not X 1 is even or odd, we should condition on the parity of X 1 . Namely, E [ T ] = E [ E [ T | X 1 ]] . If X 1 is odd, we are done, and our expected payout is 1 + 3 + 5 3 = 3 . If X 1 is even, our expected payout from the first round is 4 , and then we get to flip a fair coin. With probability 1 2 , we get to roll again, so in the even case, our expected payout is 4 + 1 2 E [ T ] , as with probability 1 2 we go again. Therefore, by LOTE,

$$\mathbb { E } [ T ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot 3 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left ( 4 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \mathbb { E } [ T ] \right )$$

Solving for E [ T ] in the above yields E [ T ] = 14 3 .