wall at a constant rate of 4 feet per minute. Find the rate at which the tip of the ladder is sliding down the wall (in feet per minute) when the base of the ladder is 30 feet away from the wall.

## Explanation:

We can view the ladder as the hypotenuse of a triangle whose sites are the ground and the wall. Using Pythagorean Theorem, we find that

$$3 0 ^ { 2 } + y ^ { 2 } = 5 0 ^ { 2 } \iff y = 4 0$$

Therefore, the tip of the ladder is 40 feet above ground at that time. We now take the derivative of both sides of x 2 + y 2 = z 2 . We know that x ′ = 3 , as the base length is increasing as the ladder slips down the wall. Furthermore, z ′ = 0 , as the ladder doesn't change in length. We want y ′ . The derivative is 2 xx ′ +2 yy ′ = 2 zz ′ . However, the RHS is 0 by the fact z ′ = 0 . Therefore, we can just plug in and solve for y ′ .

$$2 ( 3 0 ) ( 4 ) + 2 ( 4 0 ) y ^ { \prime } = 0 \iff y ^ { \prime } = - 3$$

This means that our answer is 3 , as the ladder slides down the wall at a rate of 3 feet per minute.

## 430 3 Card Straight

Company : None

## Prompt:

8

standard 52 -card decks are combined together and shuffled well. Find the probability that 3 cards drawn uniformly at random from this deck form a three card straight. Note that we do not count a straight flush in this.

## Explanation:

Since each deck has 52 cards, there are ( 416 3 ) ways to pick the three cards with order irrelevant. Now, to count the total number of straights, we should include all types of straights first and then remove straight flushes, as it is difficult to count it directly.

The straight can be in the form A 23 , 234 , . . . , QKA , which is 12 options. Then, there are 32 replicates of each rank in the deck, as you get 4 replicates per deck. This means that there are 32 options per rank in the deck, so there are 12 · 32 3 straights. To remove straight flushes, there are 12 ways to pick the straight, 4 ways to pick the suit, and now 8 cards of each rank and suit in the deck (as we have 8 replicate decks), so there are 12 · 4 · 8 3 straight flushes. This means that the total number of straights is 12 · 32 3 -12 · 4 · 8 3 = 368640