## Explanation:

Let I 1 , . . . , I 4 be the indicator of the event that the i th orb's color is guessed correctly. Then T = I 1 + I 2 + I 3 + I 4 gives the total profit of the game. By linearity of expectation, E [ T ] = ∑ 4 i =1 P [ A i ] , where A i is the event that the i th orb's color is guessed correctly. We want to find a strategy that maximizes P [ A i ] .

On the first draw, we have absolutely no information about what color will come out. Therefore, regardless of which color we select, our probability of getting it correct is P [ A 1 ] = 1 2 . Afterwards, once we have observed the color of the first orb, note that the probability that the second orb differs in color from the first orb is 2 3 . This also means the probability they are the same color is 1 3 . Therefore, we should guess the opposite color of the orb to be drawn on the second draw. This means P [ A 2 ] = 2 3 . For the third draw, we really need to think about what has come out thus far. If the first two draws are the same color, which occurs with probability 1 3 , then with probability 1 you know the color of the last two orbs to be drawn, so you should guess that. If they differ, which occurs with probability 2 3 , then you are back at random for the third draw, so you get it correct with probability 1 2 . Therefore, by applying Law of Total Probability via conditioning on the matching or differing colors of the orbs, P [ A 3 ] = 2 3 · 1 2 + 1 3 · 1 = 2 3 . Regardless of what is drawn on the third turn, you know the last color, so P [ A 4 ] = 1 . Therefore, under this strategy, E [ T ] = 1 2 + 2 3 + 2 3 +1 = 17 6 . Note that under just guessing randomly, your expected value would be 2 , so this is a significant improvement.

## 1035 Cow, Goat, and Goose

Company :

## Prompt:

A farmer found that his cow and goat would eat all the grass in a certain field in 45 days, that the cow and the goose would eat it in 60 days, but that it would take the goat and the goose 90 days to eat it down.

Now, if he had turned cow, goat, and goose into the field together, how long would it have taken them to eat all the grass?

## Explanation:

Let t be the number of days it takes for them to eat all the grass. Let a, b, c be the eating rate in number of fields per day of (respectively) cow, goat, and goose.

In t days, the various contributions of each of the animals to the eating process is at , bt , ct respectively. So for the total contribution to be 1 fi eld, we have:

$$( a + b + c ) t = 1 \Rightarrow t = \frac { 1 } { a + b + c }$$