## 1126 Statistical Test Review VI

Company :

## Prompt:

Andy claims that 20% of the public loves QuantGuide. Aaron dislikes Andy and wants to prove him wrongâspecifically, he thinks Andy's estimate is too large. He takes a random sample of 100 people to test his claim. With α = 0 . 05 (note that z 0 . 05 = -1 . 645 ), what is the maximum number of people in the sample that may love QuantGuide such that Aaron can refute Andy's claim?

## Explanation:

Let p denote the probability that a person loves QuantGuide. We define

$$H _ { 0 } \colon p = 0 . 2$$

$$H _ { a } \colon p < 0 . 2$$

For a Bernoulli random variable X with parameter p , recall that µ = p and σ 2 = p (1 -p ) . Let ˆ p denote the sample proportion. Since n = 100 , our sample size is sufficiently large to assume that ˆ p is normally distributed with mean p and variance p (1 -p ) . Our test statistic is

$$Z = \frac { \hat { p } - p } { \sqrt { \frac { p ( 1 - p ) } { n } } } = \frac { \hat { p } - 0 . 2 } { 0 . 0 4 } \\$$

In order to reject the null hypothesis, we need our test statistic Z to be less than z 0 . 05 = -1 . 645 . With some simple algebra we determine ˆ p &lt; 0 . 1342 . The maximum integer number of people that may love QuantGuide such that Andy's claim can be refuted is therefore 13 .

## 1127 Bakugan and Beyblade

Company : None

## Prompt:

Two machines independently manufacture Bakugan and Beyblade toys. The time it takes each machine to produce a toy is Exp (1) distributed. The manufacturing time is independent of all other toys. Assume there is no delay between when a machine produces a toy to when it starts the next toy. Find the probability that the third Bakugan is manufactured before the second Beyblade.

## Explanation:

The key to this question is the following realization: When a toy is produced at all, it is equally likely to be a Bakugan or a Beyblade. The reason is because of the memorylessness property and the fact that they have equal rates of production.