## 500 Limiting Random Variable I

Company : Millennium Management

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . be a sequence of IID random variables with mean 5 and variance 20 . It is also known the third and fourth moments of X 1 are finite. Let

$$Y _ { n } = \frac { X _ { 1 } ^ { 2 } + X _ { 2 } ^ { 2 } X _ { 3 } X _ { 4 } + X _ { 5 } ^ { 2 } + X _ { 6 } ^ { 2 } X _ { 7 } X _ { 8 } + \cdots + X _ { 4 n - 3 } ^ { 2 } + X _ { 4 n - 2 } ^ { 2 } X _ { 4 n - 1 } X _ { 4 n } } { n }$$

Find lim n →∞ E [ Y n ] . If this limit does not exist, enter -1 .

## Explanation:

Define Z n = X 2 4 n -3 + X 2 4 n -2 X 4 n -1 X 4 n . Then Y n = Z 1 + · · · + Z n n . by substituting in. Therefore, as the Z i random variables are IID, E [ Y n ] = 1 n · n E [ Z 1 ] = E [ Z 1 ] . By substituting in the definition of Z 1 , E [ Z 1 ] = E [ X 2 1 + X 2 2 X 3 X 4 ] .

By linearity of expectation and independence, E [ Z 1 ] = E [ X 2 1 ]+ E [ X 2 2 ] E [ X 3 ] E [ X 4 ] . We can quickly compute E [ X 2 1 ] = Var ( X 1 ) + ( E [ X 1 ]) 2 = 25 + 20 = 45 , so E [ Z 1 ] = 45 + 45 · 5 · 5 = 1170 , so E [ Y n ] = 1170 for all n , meaning 1170 is our answer.

## 501 Confident Double Heads

Company : None

## Prompt:

A bag has 19 fair coins and one double-headed coin. We pick a coin uniformly at random from the bag. What is the minimum number of times this coin would need to appear heads in a row to be at least 95% certain that the coin we have is the double-headed coin?

## Explanation:

Let p n be the probability that given we observe n consecutive heads, our coin is the double-headed coin. Let H n be the event that n consecutive heads are observed and D be the event that we selected the doubleheaded coin. We want p n = P [ D | H n ] = P [ D ∩ H n ] P [ H n ] by the definition of conditional probability. On the numerator, we can use the definition of conditional probability again to receive P [ D | H n ] = P [ H n | D ] P [ D ] . The probability of selecting the double-headed coin is 1 20 . Given we select the double-headed coin, we will flip any amount of heads consecutively with probability 1 , so P [ H n | D ] = 1 .