We have that d = 7( v A -v B ) = 4( v A -v C ) = t 2 ( v B -v C ) by rearranging the equations above. However, note that

$$v _ { B } - v _ { C } = ( v _ { A } - v _ { C } ) - ( v _ { A } - v _ { B } ) = \frac { d } { 4 } - \frac { d } { 7 } = \frac { 3 } { 2 8 } d$$

Therefore, we have that d = t 2 · 3 d 28 = 3 dt 56 , so t = 56 3 . In particular, this is 6 minutes and 40 seconds after Alice passes Carter (Alice passes at 12 minutes). Therefore, our answer is 6 · 60 + 40 = 400 .

## 121 Comparing Flips II

Company : Jane Street, Akuna, Citadel, SIG, WorldQuant

## Prompt:

You and your friend are playing a game with a fair coin, tossing it and writing down the outcomes. You win if HTH appears before HHT, else your friend wins. What is the probability that your friend wins?

## Explanation:

Both sequences contain the subsequence HT, so imagine writing down an infinite number of toss outcomes and scanning for HT subsequences. In order for HTH to occur first, an H must not precede HT (else HHT occurs) and an H must succeed it (to create HTH). Hence, the probability HTH wins is 1 2 × 1 2 = 1 4 given there is an HT. In order for HHT to occur first, an H must precede HT, which happens with probability 1 2 given there is an HT. Note that these are the only two outcomes that can occur and thus define our sample space 1 2 + 1 4 = 3 4 . The probability that your friend wins is 1 2 ÷ 3 4 = 2 3 and the probability that you win is 1 4 ÷ 3 4 = 1 3 . In other words, HHT is twice as likely to occur before HTH.

## 122 Colorful Bracelet

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

How many unique bracelet configurations can be made with 3 red and 3 blue beads? Configurations that can be made as rotations of other configurations are considered indistinguishable. Do not consider symmetry over flipping the bracelet. For example,

## RRGRGG = RRGGRG

/negationslash

## Explanation:

There are three cases to consider here. The first is that all three red beads are together. In this case, we get exactly 1 distinguishable bracelet, as the others are just rotations. The second case is that we have 2 distinct regions i.e. 2 beads are together separated from the last one. This means that blue beads are at both ends of