## Prompt:

A chess tournament has 128 players, each with a distinct rating. Assume that the player with the higher rating always wins against a lower rated opponent and that the winner proceeds to the subsequent round. Since the tournament's structure resembles that of a knockout bracket, 7 total rounds are played, including the final. What is the probability that the highest rated and the third-highest rated players will meet in the final?

## Explanation:

Let's divide our knockout tournament into two subgroups of size 64 each. For ease in explanation, let x 1 denote the highest-rated player, let x 2 denote the second-highest rated player, and let x 3 denote the thirdhighest rated explanation. Suppose x 1 is in subgroup 1 , without loss of generality. Then, there are 63 slots left in subgroup 1 for the remaining 127 players. The only way for x 3 and x 1 to meet in the finals is if x 1 and x 2 are in one subgroup, and x 3 is in the other subgroup. This occurs with probability

$$\frac { 6 3 \cdot 6 4 } { 1 2 7 \cdot 1 2 6 } = \frac { 3 2 } { 1 2 7 }$$

## 980 Matching Die Pair

Company : None

## Prompt:

Two fair 6 -sided dice are rolled and their upfaces are recorded. Find the probability that if both dice are rolled again, the values rolled on the second trial are the same as on the first trial.

## Explanation:

We have two cases to consider here, which correspond to the original dice values being the same or different. The probability that the first 2 dice rolled show the same value is \(\frac{6}{6^2}=\frac{1}{6}\). Given this, the probability that the values on the second roll match the first roll is \(\frac{1}{36}\), as both dice must show that same value. Otherwise, if they differ, which occurs with probability \(\frac{5}{6}\), the probability that the second rolls match the values on the first rolls is \(2\cdot\frac{1}{36}=\frac{1}{18}\), as if the original die values are \(a\) and \(b\) (with \(a\ne b\) since we assume here the rolls are distinct), you can either roll \(ab\) or \(ba\) on your second try. Therefore, the probability of a match is
\[
\frac{1}{36}\cdot\frac{1}{6}+\frac{1}{18}\cdot\frac{5}{6}=\frac{11}{216}.
\]

## 981 Even Steven

Company :
