## Explanation:

From 2D Grids I, we know that there are a total of ( 8 3 ) = 56 total paths from (0 , 0) to (5 , 3) with no restrictions. Now, we want to remove those that don't satisfy our restriction.

Note that if the y = x line is crossed, which runs from (0 , 0) to (3 , 3) inside the grid, then we will touch the diagonal that runs from ( -1 , 0) to (2 , 3) . Now, for each path that does touch this new diagonal, reflect the part that comes before the first touch across that diagonal. In specific, we now that have (0 , 0) reflects to ( -1 , 1) and each path that touches this new diagonal corresponds to a unique path from ( -1 , 1) to (5 , 3) . There are ( 8 2 ) = 28 such paths, so our total number of paths that don't cross our original diagonal is 56 -28 = 28 .

## 605 Uniform Product II

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X,Y ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. Find P [ XY &gt; 1 2 ] . Round your answer to the nearest hundredth.

## Explanation:

Plot the line XY &gt; 0 . 5 within the unit square. You'll see its a curved line from point (0 . 5 , 1) to (1 , 0 . 5) . We can find the area under this curve and take its compliment to find the answer to this question (from 0 . 5 ≤ x ≤ 1 ). Thus

$$\mathbb { P } [ X Y > 0 . 5 ] & = \int _ { 0 . 5 } ^ { 1 } \left ( 1 - \frac { 1 } { 2 x } \right ) d x \\ & = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left ( 1 + \ln \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) \right ) \approx 0 . 1 5$$

## 606 Positively Normal

Company : Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

Suppose that X and Y are two IID standard normal random variables. Compute P [ Y &gt; √ 3 X | Y &gt; 0 ] .

## Explanation:

The key idea here is that ( X,Y ) is radially symmetric about the origin. In other words, the density at each point of the circumference of the circle of radius r &gt; 0 centered at the origin is constant. One can see this