the form √ a -b c for integers a, b, c &gt; 0 that are pairwise relatively prime. Find a + b + c . Note that Mordecai and Rigby both know m ( x ) and r ( x ) .

## Explanation:

Suppose that Mordecai shoots first at position x . Then with probability x he wins, while with probability 1 -x , Rigby wins. Alternatively, if Rigby shoots first at position x , then with probability x 2 he wins, while with probability 1 -x 2 , Mordecai wins. Therefore, the optimal strategy for each is to minimize the other person's chance of winning. For Mordecai, this function that he needs to minimize is max { x 2 , 1 -x } . For Rigby, this function is min { x, 1 -x 2 } .

However, note that x 2 is monotonically increasing and 1 -x is monotonically decreasing. Similarly, x is monotonically increasing and 1 -x 2 is monotonically decreasing. Therefore, for each function, there is a unique point at which the two respective functions are equal and that will be the minimum.

For Mordecai, the equation that must be solved is x 2 = 1 -x . For Rigby, the equation that needs to be solved is x = 1 -x 2 . However, by rearranging both equations, we can see that the optimal x for both is when x + x 2 = 1 . This implies that they should both shoot at the same time. Solving this quadratic equation yields the optimal x ∗ = √ 5 -1 2 .

Rigby's equation is the chance of Mordecai winning, so as x ∗ = 1 -( x ∗ ) 2 , we have that Mordecai's chance of winning is just √ 5 -1 2 .

## 475 Temperature Conversion

Company : None

## Prompt:

In June, New York City's daily maximum temperature has a mean of 80 ◦ F and standard deviation of 5 ◦ F. What is the absolute difference in mean and variance in ◦ C? Round your answer to the nearest hundredth.

## Explanation:

Let F denote temperature in ◦ F and C denote temperature in ◦ C. Recall that the conversion formula between the units is: