## Prompt:

A road of length 400 miles has two cars, say A and B , starting at opposite ends of the road. Cars A and B respectively drive towards at each at constant rates of 120 miles per hour and 60 miles per hour. A fly starts on Car B and flies towards Car A at a rate of 180 miles per hour. Then, once it hits Car A , it immediately starts to fly back to Car B at the same rate. To the nearest minute, how long after the cars start driving will the fly return to Car B ?

## Explanation:

Consider a number line where Car A starts at 0 and Car B and the fly start at 400 . To return to Car B , the fly must reach Car A and then return from A to B . Starting from Car B , the fly and Car A move towards each other at a relative rate of 180 + 60 = 240 miles per hour.

The fly and the car must travel a total of 400 miles total to reach each other, as they start 400 miles apart, so the amount of times that takes is 400 240 = 5 3 hours, which is 100 minutes. When the fly and Car A meet, Car A is now at location 100 and Car B has travelled 120 · 5 3 = 200 miles, so it is at location 200 . Therefore, Car A and Car B are now 100 miles apart. Car B and the fly move towards each other at the rate of 180 + 120 = 300 miles per hour, so it will take 100 300 = 1 3 hours for the fly to reach back to Car B , so this is an additional 20 minutes. This means it takes a total of 120 minutes for the fly to reach back.

## 973 Poker Hands III

Company : None

## Prompt:

A poker hand consists of five cards from a fair deck of 52 cards. What is the probability that you have two pairs (two cards of the same value and another two cards of the same value)?

## Explanation:

There are a total of ( 52 5 ) total hand combinations. To count the number of hands that contain two pairs, we can look at the pairs in tandem. The pairs have ( 13 2 ) possible face values and ( 4 2 ) possible suit values each. The last card can be any of the remaining 44 cards that have a different value than the two pairs. Thus, the probability that you have two pairs is:

$$\frac { \left ( \begin{matrix} 1 3 \\ 2 \end{matrix} \right ) \times \left ( \begin{matrix} 4 \\ 2 \end{matrix} \right ) \times 4 4 } { \left ( \begin{matrix} 5 2 \\ 5 \end{matrix} \right ) } = \frac { 1 9 8 } { 4 1 6 5 }$$