By linearity of expectation E [ T ] = E [ I 1 ] + · · · + E [ I 14 ] . Recall that the expectation of an indicator random variable is the probability of the event it indicates. For indicators 2 -13 , they are surrounded by a spot on each side, so the probability that the maximum value of the papers in spots i -1 , i, i +1 is the one at spot i is 1 3 by symmetry. This holds for all 2 ≤ i ≤ 13 . For the endpoints, there is just one value they need to be

$$\begin{smallmatrix} 3 \\ \text {larger than, so the probability is } \frac { 1 } { 2 } \text { for spots } 1 \text { and } 1 4 . \text { Therefore, } \mathbb { E } [ T ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot 2 + \frac { 1 } { 3 } \cdot 1 2 = 5 . \end{smallmatrix}$$

## 888 Jellybean Jar II

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

A child has a pack of 6 red and 10 blue jellybeans. The child wants to eat 4 jellybeans, so they grab 4 jellybeans one-by-one uniformly at random without replacement from the pack. Find the probability that the first two and last two jellybeans agree in colors (not necessarily in order). For example, RBBR and RRRR are both valid, but RRBR is not.

## Explanation:

There are three possibilities for the colors appearing in the first two spots. Namely, they are RR,BR, and BB . The first and last case respectively occur when we obtain RRRR and BBBB . The probabilities of each of these are 6 · 5 · 4 · 3 16 · 15 · 14 · 13 and 10 · 9 · 8 · 7 16 · 15 · 14 · 13 . The second case occurs when we have one blue and one red in each of the first and last two spots. As we can arrange the blue and red as RB or BR in each of the first and last two spots, we can multiply the number of ways to get some fixed sequence of one red and one blue in each of the first and last two by 4 . For simplicity, let's say the fixed sequence is RBRB . Then we have 4 · 10 · 6 · 9 · 5 16 · 15 · 14 · 13 total ways to obtain this case.

Adding up our three cases, our total probability is

$$\frac { 6 \cdot 5 \cdot 4 \cdot 3 + 1 0 \cdot 9 \cdot 8 \cdot 7 + 4 \cdot 1 0 \cdot 6 \cdot 9 \cdot 5 } { 1 6 \cdot 1 5 \cdot 1 4 \cdot 1 3 } = \frac { 1 3 5 } { 3 6 4 }$$

## 889 Grid Filling II

Company : Optiver