## Prompt:

An archer is shooting at targets. There are 4 columns of identical targets, each with 2 , 3 , 3 , and 4 targets stacked vertically, respectively. The archer first selects a column and then shoots the lowest-hanging target in that column that is not broken. Once a column is out of targets, it is no longer able to be selected. In how many ways can the archer break all the targets?

## Explanation:

There are 12 total targets and 4 columns. Label the columns 1 -4 . Then we are just counting the number of anagrams that can be made with 2 1 s, 3 2s, 3 3s, and 4 4s. This is because we can identify a unique breaking order by the column we shoot in at each step. The number of anagrams is just given by the multinomial coefficient ( 12 2 , 3 , 3 , 4 ) = 277200

## 569 Peeled Dice

Company : Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

Suppose you roll a fair 6 -sided die and peel that rolled value off the die so that there are five remaining sides with values on them. You roll until you obtain one of the other five values. What is the expected sum of the two rolls?

## Explanation:

The value on the second roll is going to depend on the value peeled off from the first roll. Therefore, we condition on the value peeled off on the first roll. You roll each value on the die with equal probability, so if T denotes the total of the two rolls, E [ T ] = E [ E [ T | X 1 ]] = 1 6 ∑ 6 i =1 E [ T | X 1 = i ] .

E [ T | X 1 = i ] is now what we need to compute. We know that i is already contributed to our total from the first roll. Then, i is peeled off the die, so that now the remaining values sum to 21 -i and there are 5 equally-likely values. Therefore, the expected value of the second roll given the first is i is 21 -i 5 Thus, E [ T | X 1 = i ] = 21 -i 5 + i = 21 + 4 i 5 .

Plugging this in,