## Prompt:

Dave and Mike each have a fair 6 -sided die. They both roll at once. If they roll the same value, Mike wins. If Mike rolls a strictly larger value than Dave, then Dave wins. If Dave rolls a strictly larger value than Mike, then they both re-roll until one of the other two outcomes occurs. Find the probability that Mike wins this game.

## Explanation:

Let p be the probability that Mike wins. If they roll the same value, which occurs with probability 1 6 , then Mike wins with probability 1 . The probability that Mike rolls a strictly larger or smaller value than Dave are equal by symmetry of the dice. Namely, they are 1 -1 6 2 = 5 12 . If Dave rolls a strictly larger value than Mike, then Mike wins with probability p . If Mike rolls a strictly larger value than Dave, then Mike does not win i.e. wins with probability 0 . Therefore, by Law of Total Probability, this can be written as

$$p = \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot 1 + \frac { 5 } { 1 2 } \cdot p$$

Solving this yields p = 2 7 .

## 822 Russian Roulette II

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You're playing a game of Russian Roulette with a friend. The six-chambered revolver is loaded with one bullet. Initially, the cylinder is spun to randomize the order of the chambers. The two of you take turns pulling the trigger until the person who fires the gun loses. Given that the cylinder is re-spun after each turn, what is the probability that you win if your friend goes first?

## Explanation:

Let p be the probability that the first player, your friend, loses and 1 -p be the probability that the second player, you, loses. We can condition the probability p on the first trigger pull. The first player loses with certainty 1 6 of the time. Else, he essentially becomes the second player in the game with a conditional probability 1 -p of losing. Thus,

$$p = \frac { 1 } { 6 } \times 1 + \frac { 5 } { 6 } \times ( 1 - p ) \Rightarrow p = \frac { 6 } { 1 1 }$$

## 823 Contracts and Pricing I

Company : SIG