Suppose you elect to use some strategy, say S , to this game. Now, apply S to the game where instead of the next card being red, the last card in the deck is red. The probability of you winning is the same in each game, as each of the remaining unturned cards has the same probability of being red. However, the probability of winning in the second game, regardless of your strategy, is 1 / 2 , as we always ask for the last card to be red. Therefore, it doesn't matter what strategy you use for this game, as it will always be probability 1 / 2 of winning.

## 211 Eigenshift

Company :

## Prompt:

Let A be a n × n matrix with eigenvalues 5 and 7 . Find the sum of the eigenvalues of B = ( A -3 I n ) -3 . We write M -3 to mean ( M -1 ) 3 .

## Explanation:

The eigenvalues of A -3 I n are 2 and 4 , as the -3 I n decreases both eigenvalues by 3 . Then, ( A -3 I n ) -1 has eigenvalues 1 2 and 1 4 , as the inverse has eigenvalues that are the reciprocal of the original eigenvalues. Lastly, ( A -3 I n ) -3 would have eigenvalues 1 2 3 = 1 8 and 1 4 3 = 1 64 , as we would cube the eigenvalues. Adding these up, we get that our answer is 1 8 + 1 64 = 9 64 .

## 212 Statistical Test Review III

Company :

## Prompt:

Trader wages have mean 132 and standard deviation 25 . QuantHomies, a proprietary trading firm, employs 40 traders and pays them a wage of 122 . Using an α = 0 . 01 level test (note that z 0 . 01 = -2 . 326 ), determine whether QuantHomies can be accused of paying wages that are below the industry standard. Respond 1 if yes, 0 if no.

## Explanation:

We define

H 0 : µ = 132

H a : µ &lt; 132