Finally, all three pebbles can land in the same square which adds an extra 9 ways. Thus in total there are 504 + 216 + 9 = 729 ways. Thus the probability is

$$\frac { 4 8 } { 7 2 9 } = \frac { 1 6 } { 2 4 3 }$$

Alternatively, a faster way to do this is to consider that there are 9 ∗ 9 ∗ 9 = 729 total possibilities how each pebble lands. Since there are 8 winning patterns and each has 3! permutations, there are 8 ∗ 3! 729 = 48 729 = 16 243 .

## 967 Likely Targets II

Company : DE Shaw

## Prompt:

Two linear targets, say A and B , of respective radii ε and 2 ε , where ε &lt;&lt; 1 , are placed on an infinitely long line. The targets are centered at x A = -1 and x B = 3 . In other words, target A covers the interval [1 -ε , 1 + ε ] , while target B covers the interval [3 -2 ε , 3 + 2 ε ] . You have one dart to shoot at the line. Your goal is to maximize your probability of hitting one of the targets. You can choose where to center your throw on the line. If you select to center your dart at µ , the actual position your dart lands at is X ∼ N ( µ, 4) . Find the value of µ that maximizes your chances of hitting a target. If necessary, round your answer to the nearest hundredth.

## Explanation:

The key here is to note that since the targets are of extremely small radius, we can essentially treat them as points. The approximate probability we hit target A would be approximately f ( x A ) ε , where f ( x A ) is the probability density at point A . However, since B is also of small radius 2 ε , the probability we hit target B is approximately 2 f ( x B ) ε . Since the two targets are disjoint, our goal is to maximize the weighted sum of the probability densities. Our probability density here is dependent on what µ we select. Therefore, as a function of µ , we need to maximize

$$f ( \mu ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 \sqrt { 2 \pi } } \left ( e ^ { - \frac { ( - 1 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } + 2 e ^ { - \frac { ( 3 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } \right )$$

The two interior terms are just the density of a N ( µ, 4) distribution at -1 and 3 . To do this, we take the derivative and set it equal to 0 . In particular,

$$f ^ { \prime } ( \mu ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 \sqrt { 2 \pi } } \left [ \frac { - 1 - \mu } { 4 } e ^ { - \frac { ( - 1 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } + \frac { 3 - \mu } { 2 } e ^ { - \frac { ( 3 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } \right ] = 0$$

Using a computer system, f ′ ( µ ) = 0 for µ ≈ 2 . 649 . One can verify that this is indeed a maxima, so 2 . 65 is our answer. This intuitively makes sense, as the increased size of the region around 3 means that we should