should be in the 1953 rd position of the circle to be the last person alive.

For a more general case with N people in the circle, we can express N as 2 n + r and the position last to survive is 2 r +1 .

## 791 Largest Inscribed Circle

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

What is the area of the largest circle that can be inscribed inside a triangle with side lengths of 16, 16, and 24? The answer can be written in the form p π q , where p q is a simplified fraction. Find p + q .

## Explanation:

Recall from euclidean geometry that the area of a triangle can be expressed as the product of its inradius and its semiperimeter. Following routine application of the pythagorean theorem, we find that the altitude of the triangle from the base of length 24 is 4 √ 7 , so the area is 48 √ 7 . The semiperimeter, being half the perimeter, is 28 , so we can compute the inradius as 12 √ 7 7 . The area of the incircle is 144 π 7 , so our answer is 144 + 7 = 151 .

## 792 Dot Removal

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

A fair 6 -sided die has the values 1 -6 on the sides. The values of one of the sides (selected uniformly at random) is decreased by 1 . Find the probability an even value is rolled on this die.

## Explanation:

It is equally likely to select an even or odd value to decrease the value by 1 on. Subtracting one turns the side into one of opposite parity. If we select an even value to decrease, with probability 2 6 = 1 3 we roll an even value. If we select an odd value to decrease, with probability 4 6 = 2 3 we roll an even value. Therefore, the total probability is

## 793 Clockwise Murder

Company :

$$\frac { \frac { 1 } { 3 } + \frac { 2 } { 3 } } { 2 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$