## Prompt:

You're on a game show and are given the choice of 10 doors to choose from. Behind one door is $1000 and behind the other nine are goats. You pick one of the doors at random and announce your choice to the game show host. The game show host, knowing which prize is behind each door, opens three doors that you did not choose and shows goats behind all of them after hearing your initial choice. He offers you the opportunity to either keep your original door or switch to the other closed door. What is the expected value of this game in dollars? Assume goats are worth $0 .

## Explanation:

If you have not done the problem "Game Show I", please do so before this question. From "Game Show I", we already know the best choice is to always switch doors. Now the problem is to calculate the EV of the game.

9 10 ths of the time, you pick a door with a goat initially. Given the strategy of always switching after the three doors with goats behind them are revealed, we are left with 6 doors to switch to, one of which has the cash prize. Thus the probability we switch to the cash prize door is 9 10 · 1 6 = 0 . 15 .

The other 1 10 th of the time, we initially pick the cash prize door and switch to a losing door. Thus the EV of this game is 0 . 15 · $1000 = $150 .

## 460 Connected Origin

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that in the integer lattice Z 2 , each pair of vertices of Euclidean distance 1 has a path connecting them with probability p . Using the bound provided by sub-additivity, the interval of values of p so that the probability that the origin is in an infinite connected component is 0 is in the form (0 , a ) . Find a .

## Explanation:

Let A be the event that the origin belongs to a connected component. Suppose A holds. Then for any length n , there must be a path γ of length n that passes through the origin. For each path γ , let A γ be the event that path γ is present. Since our path is of length n , P [ A γ ] = p n , where p is the probability that each individual component of the path is present.