## 649 Cube Slice

Company :

## Prompt:

A lumberjack is cutting a 3 × 3 × 3 cubic piece of wood into 27 1 × 1 × 1 cubes of wood. The lumberjack can reposition the cube and individual pieces after each cut. Find the minimum number of cuts the lumberjack needs to make to form the smaller cubes.

## Explanation:

Consider the center cube. To form the 6 sides of it, at least 6 cuts need to be made. However, the most basic strategy possible in cutting works: Just cut the top 4 times ( 2 times vertically and 2 times horizontally) and then 2 times on the side to create the layering of the cubes. Therefore 6 is the minimum.

## 650 Fireball Thrower

Company :

## Prompt:

Mario and Luigi are throwing Fireballs. Each one throws a fireball twice. Let M 1 and M 2 represent the distance of Mario's 2 attempts, while L 1 and L 2 represent the distance of Luigi's 2 attempts. We have that M i ∼ Exp (1) while L i ∼ Exp (2) . All attempts are independent of all other attempts. Let M = max { M 1 , M 2 } and L = max { L 1 , L 2 } . Find P [ M &gt; 2 L ] .

## Explanation:

We have that M and L are independent, as they come from collections of random variables that are independent of each other. The PDF of M is given by

$$f ( x ) = 2 e ^ { - x } ( 1 - e ^ { - x } ) I _ { ( 0 , \infty ) } ( x )$$

by using the order statistics formula. Similarly, the PDF of L is

$$g ( y ) = 4 e ^ { - 2 y } ( 1 - e ^ { - 2 y } ) I _ { ( 0 , \infty ) } ( y )$$

Thus, the joint PDF of M and L is 8 e -( x +2 y ) (1 -e -x )(1 -e -2 y ) I (0 , ∞ ) ( x ) I (0 , ∞ ) ( y ) .

The remainder is just integrating over the region. The double integral is ∫ ∞ 0 ∫ ∞ 2 y 8 e -( x +2 y ) (1 -e -x )(1 -