balanced, then the remaining bean is heavier. Else, the heavier side contains the heavier bean. Hence, we only need to use the balance scale twice.

## 482 Dinner at Dorsia

Company : Belvedere Trading, SIG, Akuna, Jane Street, Citadel, GSA Capital

## Prompt:

Two quants are planning for dinner at Dorsia. Assume that each independently arrives at some uniformly random time between 8:00pm and 9:00pm, for which they stay for exactly 10 minutes before leaving. What is the probability that they will meet each other and stay for dinner?

## Explanation:

Let quant x arrive X minutes after 8:00pm and quant y arrive Y minutes after 8:00pm. The two quants meet if and only if | Y -X | ≤ 10 . The area covered by this constraint in the sample space X,Y ∈ [0 , 60] is equal to 60 2 -50 2 = 1100 . Since both X and Y are uniformly distributed, the probability that the two quants meet is 1100 3600 = 11 36 .

## 483 Family Ties

Company : None

## Prompt:

A grandmother has two grandchildren and their ages so conveniently line up that the age of each grandchild is one of the digits of the grandmother's age. Additionally, the sum of all three ages is 98. What is the age of the grandmother?

## Explanation:

Let x be the age of the 10 s digit child and y be the age of the 1 s digit child. We know that the age of the grandmother is 10 x + y . Therefore, the sum of all of their ages is 11 x +2 y . Thus, 11 x +2 y = 98 . We know that each of x and y need to be an integer between 1 and 9 , inclusive of both, as the age of each child is a digit. Since 11 x +2 y = 98 , we need x to be large, as it has a significantly larger coefficient.

Consider x = 7 , 8 , 9 . For x = 7 , 2 y = 21 , which means y is larger than 10 . Therefore, this does not work. If x = 8 , then 2 y = 10 , in which case y = 5 . This is a possibility. If x = 9 , then 2 y = -1 , meaning y is negative (and also not an integer), so this is impossible. Therefore, x = 8 and y = 5 , so the age of the grandmother is 85 .