## Explanation:

The sample space of two children given at least one child is a daughter is Ω = { ( b, g ) , ( g, b ) , ( g, g ) } , where ( b, g ) means that the older child is a boy and the younger child is a girl. Thus, the probability that Jane has two daughters is 1 3 .

## 508 Tricky Bob I

Company : Optiver

## Prompt:

Bob proposes a game where Alice and Bob are each given a coin. Each is allowed decide the probability of heads for their coin. Afterwards, they both flip their coins. If it comes up HH , Alice gives Bob $6 . If it comes up TT , Alice gives Bob $4 . Otherwise, Bob gives Alice $5 . However, Alice must tell Bob the success probability p 1 they have chosen before Bob decides his p 2 . The interval of values for p 1 such that regardless of what Bob selects, Bob has non-positive expected value on the game is in the form [ a, b ] , where a and b are rational numbers. Find b -a .

## Explanation:

Call Bob's success probability p 2 . Let's write out the expected value as a function of p 1 and p 2 . The probability of HH is p 1 p 2 . The probability of TT is (1 -p 1 )(1 -p 2 ) . The probability of TH or HT is p 1 (1 -p 2 ) + p 2 (1 -p 1 ) = p 1 + p 2 -2 p 1 p 2 . From Bob's perspective, the respective profits for each of these outcomes are 6 , 4 , and -5 . Therefore, the expected value is 6 p 1 p 2 +4(1 -p 1 )(1 -p 2 ) -5( p 1 + p 2 -2 p 1 p 2 ) = 6 p 1 p 2 + 4 -4 p 1 -4 p 2 + 4 p 1 p 2 -5 p 1 -5 p 2 + 10 p 1 p 2 = 20 p 1 p 2 -9 p 2 -9 p 1 + 4 . Factoring, this becomes (20 p 1 -9) p 2 +(4 -9 p 1 ) .

/negationslash

Now, assuming that p 1 = 9 20 (such that we can rearrange and divide), we see that p 2 &gt; 9 p 1 -4 20 p 1 -9 . The RHS is 0 when p 1 = 4 9 , as the numerator vanishes. In addition, let's find when the RHS is at least 1 . This implies 9 p 1 -4 ≥ 20 p 1 -9 , which means that p 1 ≤ 5 11 . One can verify that the expected value in this case (by plugging into the expected value equation previously) is p 2 -1 . However, as a probability is at most one 1 , unless p 2 = 1 , Bob has a strictly negative expected value. Similarly, by plugging in p 1 = 4 9 , one can find the expected value to be -p 2 . Therefore, unless p 2 = 0 , Bob once again has a strictly negative expected value. Therefore, a = 4 9 and b = 5 11 , so b -a = 1 99 .

## 509 Equicorrelated

Company : AQR, DE Shaw, WorldQuant, Jane Street, Squarepoint Capital