## 598 Binomial Pricing I

Company :

## Prompt:

You have a stock, S , which has an initial price of S 0 = 10 . You want to price a European call option with a strike of K = 5 . The stock will either increase by 100% or decrease by 50% . What is the price of the time0 call option, C 0 ? Assume interest rates are 0 .

## Explanation:

First, we need to calculate the risk-neutral probabilities. We cannot assume that the stock has a 50% chance of increasing by 100% or decreasing by 50% . We setup the following equation:

$$2 q + ( 1 - q ) . 5 = 1$$

This gives q = 1 / 3 . We can now setup our one-period binomial pricing model. We know that the stock price can be either S 1 = 20 or S 1 = 5 , depending on if we increase by 100% or decrease by 50% . If we end at S 1 = 20 , then we have an option payoff of C 1 = 15 . Otherwise, we have an option payoff of C 1 = 0 . We know the risk-neutral probabilities, so we can now calculate the fair price of our call option.

$$E ( C _ { 0 } ) = \frac { 1 } { 3 } ( 1 5 ) + \frac { 2 } { 3 } ( 0 ) = 5$$

## 599 30 Side Difference

Company : Jane Street, DRW

## Prompt:

Let X and Y be the upfaces of two independent rolls of fair 30 -sided dice with values 1 -30 on the sides. Find E [ | X -Y | ] .

## Explanation:

Let Z = | X -Y | . We are going to compute the PMF of Z directly. We know that there are a total of 30 2 = 900 possible outcomes for the rolls. Now, for a fixed k , we want to find the number of outcomes satisfying { Z = k } .

If the absolute difference between the rolls is exactly k , then the outcomes are in the form ( i, i + k ) for some appropriate i . What is the range of i we can have? Namely, we know that i ≥ 1 , as that is the minimal possible value of the die. The upper bound is i = 30 -k , as that would correspond to the pair (30 -k, 30) .