prematurely. From here, to make 4-4, either Andrew wins a point and then Beth does or vice-versa which is two different outcomes. 20 · 2 = 40 ways.

## 71 Covariance of BM

Company :

## Prompt:

Let W t be a standard Brownian Motion. Compute Cov ( W 1 , W 2 ) .

## Explanation:

We will do this more generally for any 0 ≤ s ≤ t . In other words, we want to compute Cov ( W s , W t ) for any s ≤ t . Using our standard expansion of covariance,

$$C o v ( W _ { s } , W _ { t } ) = E [ W _ { s } W _ { t } ] - \mathbb { E } [ W _ { s } ] \mathbb { E } [ W _ { t } ]$$

The mean of Brownian Motion at any time is 0 , as W t ∼ N (0 , t ) , so the second term vanishes. The trick to compute the first term is to write W t = ( W t -W s ) + W s . We do this because of the fact that W t -W s is independent of W s . Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } [ W _ { s } W _ { t } ] = \mathbb { E } [ W _ { s } ( ( W _ { t } - W _ { s } ) + W _ { s } ) ] = \mathbb { E } [ W _ { s } ( W _ { t } - W _ { s } ) ] + \mathbb { E } [ W _ { s } ^ { 2 } ]$$

The first term above is just E [ W s ] E [ W t -W s ] = 0 by the independence of W s and W t -W s . The other term is just s . This is because the mean of W s is 0 , so E [ W 2 s ] = Var ( W s ) . Therefore, Cov ( W s , W t ) = s for 0 ≤ s ≤ t . In this case s = 1 and t = 2 , so our answer is 1 .

## 72 Conditional Head Starter

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

A fair coin is flipped n times. It turns out that no heads appear consecutively in the sequence. Given this information, in terms of n , find the probability that the first flip was a heads. You should get a function p ( n ) . Evaluate p (10) .

## Explanation:

Let A ( n ) be the number of sequences of length n with no consecutive heads. Then A (1) = 2 and A (2) = 3 (only HH doesn't satisfy this). For a sequence of length n to satisfy our constraint, it either starts with T or HT . It can't start with HH , as that would violate the condition.