## Explanation:

The highest rated player ( P 1 ) will always make it to the final since no other player can knock him or her out. The second-highest rated player ( P 2 ) makes it to the final if and only if he or she does not play P 1 beforehand, in which the P 2 will be knocked out before the final. In the first round, the 128 players are divided into two subgroups of 64. P 2 will make it to the final if he or she is in a different subgroup as P 1 . More concretely, P 2 has 127 possible match-ups, 64 of which are not in the same subgroup as P 1 . Thus, the probability that P 1 and P 2 meet in the final is

## 4 Poker Hands I

Company : None

## Prompt:

A poker hand consists of five cards from a standard deck of 52 cards. If p is the probability that you have a four-of-a-kind (four of the five cards have the same rank), find the reciprocal of p .

## Explanation:

There are a total of ( 52 5 ) total hand combinations. To count the number of hands that contain a four-of-akind, we can break the problem down into the four cards that have the same value and the fifth card. The value that is shared amongst four of them can be any of the 13 faces. The fifth card can be any of the 48 remaining cards left in the deck. Thus, the probability that you have a four-of-a-kind is:

Therefore, the answer to the question is 4165 .

## 5 Free Sundae

Company : None

## Prompt:

You are in line at an ice cream shop when the manager announces that she will give a free sundae to the first person in line whose birthday is the same as someone who has already bought an ice cream. Assuming that you do not know anyone else's birthday and that all birthdays are uniformly distributed across the 365 days in a normal year, what position in line will you choose to maximize your probability of receiving the free sundae?

$$\frac { 1 3 \times 4 8 } { ( ^ { 5 2 } _ { 5 } ) } = \frac { 1 } { 4 1 6 5 }$$

$$\frac { 6 4 } { 1 2 7 }$$