## Explanation:

Let E i be the event that bin i is empty. We want P [ E c 1 ∩ E c 2 ∩ E c 3 ] = 1 -P [ E 1 ∪ E 2 ∪ E 3 ] . We compute P [ E 1 ∪ E 2 ∪ E 3 ] by first using the Law of Total Expectation, as we do not know the number of balls k that we are distributing. Thus, P [ E 1 ∪ E 2 ∪ E 3 ] = ∑ ∞ k =1 P [ E 1 ∪ E 2 ∪ E 3 | H k ] P [ H k ] . H k here is the event that the first head occurs on the k th flip. From our work previously, P [ H k ] = 1 2 k , so:

$$\mathbb { P } [ E _ { 1 } \cup E _ { 2 } \cup E _ { 3 } \ | \ H _ { k } ] = \left ( \begin{matrix} 3 \\ 1 \end{matrix} \right ) \mathbb { P } [ E _ { 1 } \ | \ H _ { k } ] - \left ( \begin{matrix} 3 \\ 2 \end{matrix} \right ) \left ( \begin{matrix} 3 \\ 2 \end{matrix} \right ) \mathbb { P } [ E _ { 1 } E _ { 2 } \ | \ H _ { k } ] + \left ( \begin{matrix} 3 \\ 3 \end{matrix} \right ) \mathbb { P } [ E _ { 1 } E _ { 2 } E _ { 3 } \ | \ H _ { k } ]$$

( 1 ) k

The last probability is 0 as it is impossible for all 3 bins to be empty. P [ E 1 E 2 | H k ] = 3 , as we need all balls to go into bin 3. P [ E 1 | H k ] = ( 2 3 ) k , as we need all the balls to go into bins 2 or 3, which occurs with probability 2 3 per ball. Hence, P [ E 1 E 2 E 3 | H k ] = 3 ( 2 3 ) k -3 ( 1 3 ) k , and:

$$\text {boar ball.  Hence, } \mathbb { P } [ E _ { 1 } E _ { 2 } E _ { 3 } \, | \, H _ { k } ] = 3 \left ( \frac { 2 } { 3 } \right ) ^ { k } - 3 \left ( \frac { 1 } { 3 } \right ) ^ { k } \, , \, \text {and:} \\ \mathbb { P } [ E _ { 1 } \cup E _ { 2 } \cup E _ { 3 } ] = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \left [ 3 \left ( \frac { 2 } { 3 } \right ) ^ { k } - 3 \left ( \frac { 1 } { 3 } \right ) ^ { k } \right ] \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { k } \\ = 3 \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { 3 ^ { k } } - 3 \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 1 } { 6 ^ { k } } \\ = 3 \left ( \frac { \frac { 1 } { 3 } } { 1 - \frac { 3 } { 3 } } - \frac { \frac { 1 } { 6 } } { 1 - \frac { 1 } { 6 } } \right ) \\ = \frac { 9 } { 1 0 } \\ \text {that } \mathbb { P } [ E _ { 1 } ^ { c } E _ { 2 } ^ { c } E _ { 3 } ^ { c } ] = 1 - \frac { 9 } { 1 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 1 0 } .$$

Finally, we have that P [ E c 1 E c 2 E c 3 ] = 1 -9 10 = 1 10 .

## 943 High-Low

Company :

## Prompt:

You roll a fair 100 -sided die with values 1 -100 on the sides and observe the value that appears. You now must guess whether the second roll will be at least as large as the first roll or not. If the second value that appears is y and you guess correctly, you receive $ y payout. Otherwise, you receive nothing. Assuming optimal play, find the smallest integer t at which we guess that the second roll is lower than the first.

## Explanation:

Let x be the value of our first roll. Our optimal strategy is going to be that we say the second roll is lower if x ≥ t for some threshold t and higher if x &lt; t . Let t be an integer. We have two strategies corresponding to each t , which are betting higher and lower. Let's compute the expected returns for each of the two strategies for each t .