we have a equal chance of selecting each of the 9 inner squares. From here, we can look at the probability of reaching a corner from each square. This can be done in a recursive manner, working from top to bottom.

First, let's look at the top-left square in the inner 3 x 3 grid. We see that we have probability 1 2 of immediately reaching the left corner and probability 1 2 of reaching the top-center, in which case there's no chance of reaching a corner. Hence, we have overall probability 1 2 . By symmetry, the top-right square has the same probability. We can see that the top-center square of the 3 x 3 grid has zero probability of reaching a corner. We can iterate downwards, and see that we can calculate probabilities of the lower squares using the probabilities that we just calculated.

This gives us

$$\frac { 1 } { 9 } \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) = \frac { 5 } { 1 8 }$$

## 1067 Generational Wealth I

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that you generate a uniformly random number in the interval (0 , 1) . You can either keep this number or generate a new number once. Your payout is the last number generated. Find your expected payout under a rational strategy.

## Explanation:

The expected value of a Unif (0 , 1) random variable is 1 2 . Therefore, if X 1 is the first number we generate, we would keep X 1 if X 1 &gt; 1 2 . Otherwise, we generate X 2 ∼ Unif (0 , 1) . The probability X 1 &lt; 1 2 is 1 2 , and our expected profit in this case is 1 2 , as our profit would be X 2 . Otherwise, if X 1 &gt; 1 2 , which also occurs with probability 1 2 , your expected profit is 3 4 , as given that we don't generate X 2 , X 1 is uniform on (0 . 5 , 1) , which has mean 3 4 . Therefore, our expected payout of this game is 1 2 · 1 2 + 1 2 · 3 4 = 5 8 .

## 1068 Bad Bagel

Company : SIG, Jane Street

## Prompt:

A bagel factory has a conveyor belt that delivers bagels continuously. Every bagel is either good (G) or bad (B). If a given bagel was G, the next bagel is also G with probability 2 5 . If a given bagel was B, the next