## Explanation:

For ease in explanation, let x 1 denote the highest-rated player, and let x 2 denote the second-highest rated player. In order for x 1 and x 2 to meet in the final round, x 1 and x 2 must be in two different sub-brackets. This occurs with probability 2 n -1 2 n -1 . Then, x 1 must win all n -1 of their sub-bracket games, which occurs with probability p n -1 . Additionally, x 2 must win all n -1 of their sub-bracket games, which similarly occurs with probability p n -1 . Finally, x 2 must triumph over x 1 in the final round, which occurs with probability 1 -p . Putting it all together, we find

$$\mathbb { P } ( x _ { 2 } \, \text { beats } x _ { 1 } \, \text { in final} ) = \frac { 2 ^ { n - 1 } \cdot p ^ { 2 n - 2 } \cdot ( 1 - p ) } { 2 ^ { n } - 1 }$$

Plugging in the desired values for n and p , we conclude

$$\mathbb { P } ( x _ { 2 } \, \text { beats } x _ { 1 } \, \text { in final} ) & = \frac { 8 \cdot \left ( \frac { 3 } { 4 } \right ) ^ { 6 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 4 } } { 1 5 } \\ & = \frac { 2 } { 1 5 } \cdot \left ( \frac { 3 } { 4 } \right ) ^ { 6 } = \frac { 2 4 3 } { 1 0 2 4 0 }$$

## 281 Egg Drop II

Company : Aquatic Capital

## Prompt:

You are holding three identical eggs in a really large building with n stories. If an egg is dropped at an elevation under story X , then the egg will survive; else, the egg breaks. It is known that the egg will break at some floor number 1 -n . What is the maximum value of n such that at most 9 drops are required to determine X in the worst-case scenario?

## Explanation:

In Egg Drop I, the strategy was to keep the worst case constant by scaling how high we jump at each interval based on how far up it is in our tower. In other words, we make larger jumps at lower floors in the tower so that we can test every floor afterwards in a given range. Namely, with at most d drops and 2 eggs, we could test d ( d +1) 2 floors completely. The key here is to note that when we drop one egg and it breaks, we really get reduced down to the two egg case. Therefore, instead of making jumps that decrease linearly (which is what we do in the two egg case), we are going to make jumps that decrease by the maximum increment of the two egg case. This is so that we are sufficiently able to search everything in a given range in the two egg case afterwards.

Putting this into math, we want to find a first cutoff point such that if the egg breaks at floor X on the first drop, we can examine the floors below it in 9 -1 = 8 trials. We can examine up to 8 · 9 2 = 36 fl oors