## Prompt:

Do not use a pen for the question. We are playing a game; we roll a fair, 6-sided die repeatedly. We stop playing the game when we get two specific numbers in a row; the payoff is equal to the total number of rolls of the die. For our two specific numbers, should we have a preference for (case 1) 4 then 5, or (case 2) 4 then 4, or (case 3) would it not matter? Respond with the number of the case.

## Explanation:

Consider the transition graph for both cases, where we consider three states: (A) no specific numbers, (B) the first specific number, and (C) 2 specific numbers in a row. There is a slight difference in the two transition graphs; namely, there is a 2 3 probability of returning to state A when we work with case 1, whereas there is a 5 6 probability of returning to state A when considering case 2. Since we want to maximize the number of rolls it takes for us to finish the game, we would prefer case 2.

## 417 Odd Stars

Company :

## Prompt:

How many non-negative odd integer solutions are there to the equation x 1 + x 2 + x 3 + x 4 + x 5 + x 6 = 96 ? The answer is in the form ( n k ) for k &lt; n 2 . Find nk .

## Explanation:

We can write an odd integer x as x = 2 k + 1 for some non-negative integer k . Thus, let x i = 2 k i + 1 for non-negative integers k i . Then (2 k 1 +1) + · · · +(2 k 6 +1) = 96 for k i ≥ 0 integers. Rearranging, this is the same as k 1 + · · · + k 6 = 45 with k i ≥ 0 are integers. There are ( 50 5 ) solutions to this by stars and bars, so our answer is 50 · 5 = 250 .

## 418 Put Theta

Company :

## Prompt:

The underlying is currently at price S 0 = 35 . You buy a put at strike K = 33 . What will happen to theta if the price of the underlying increases? Answer -1 if theta decreases, 0 if theta stays the same, and 1 if it increases.