your character take to get to (6 , 6) such that it can collect the power-up?

## Explanation:

The character has two sub-paths: from (0 , 0) to (2 , 3) and from (2 , 3) to (6 , 6) . The total number of paths from (0 , 0) to (2 , 3) is ( 5 2 ) . The total number of paths from (2 , 3) to (6 , 6) is ( 7 4 ) . Thus, the total number of paths to (6 , 6) such that your character can pass through (2 , 3) is:

$$\left ( \begin{matrix} 5 \\ 2 \end{matrix} \right ) \times \left ( \begin{matrix} 7 \\ 4 \end{matrix} \right ) = 1 0 \times 3 5 = 3 5 0$$

## 342 Card Turner

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Suppose you have 20 cards with the values 1 -10 each appearing twice in a deck. You draw 2 cards at a time uniformly at random from the 20 cards. If they match in value, you remove them from the deck. Otherwise, they are put back into the deck. The game finishes once there are no more cards to draw. Each drawing of two cards is a turn. Find the expected number of turns needed to finish the game.

## Explanation:

Let T be the total duration of the game. We are going to generalize this to n pairs of cards. Then T = T 1 + T 2 + · · · + T n , where T i is the amount of draws needed to go from i -1 pairs drawn to i pairs drawn. By linearity of expectation, E [ T ] = n ∑ i =1 E [ T i ] . We need to find E [ T i ] now. If i -1 pairs are already drawn, then there are 2 n -2( i -1) = 2( n -i +1) cards left in the deck. For each drawing, fix the first card. The probability the second card matches that first card is 1 2( n -i +1) -1 , as there are 2( n -i +1) -1 cards left after the first of the pair is drawn, and only 1 of the cards is the same value as first card. Therefore, as this is independent between trials, T i ∼ Geom ( 1 2( n -i +1) -1 ) , meaning E [ T i ] = 2( n -i +1) -1 . Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } [ T ] = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } 2 ( n - i + 1 ) - 1 = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } ( 2 i - 1 ) = n ^ { 2 }$$

In particular, n = 10 here, so the answer is 100 .

## 343 Stacked Derivative

Company : Citadel, Akuna, GSA Capital