outcomes. Therefore, the probability the two rolls are different is 19 20 . Because of the fact that the two dice are symmetric, P [ A &gt; B ] = 1 2 · 19 20 = 19 40 , as when the two rolls are not the same, it is equally-likely whether A &gt; B or A &lt; B .

Combining these all together, we see that P [ W ] = 1 3 · 1 + 2 3 · 19 40 = 39 60 . Now, Bob is going to roll again whenever P [ W | B = b ] &gt; P [ W ] = 39 60 . This is because he wants to minimize Alice's chance of winning. It is easy to see that P [ W | B = b ] = 1 -b 30 , as Alice just needs to roll a value of at least b +1 .

We just need to find the maximum value of b , say b ∗ , such that P [ W | B = b ] = 1 -b 30 &gt; 39 60 . Solving this inequality, we get that b ≤ 10 . 5 , so b ∗ = 10 is the maximum value that Bob rolls again. Let W 1 be the event that Alice wins in this new game where Bob can roll again. We have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } ] = \mathbb { P } [ W ] + \frac { 1 0 } { 2 0 } \left ( \mathbb { P } [ W ] - \mathbb { P } [ W \ | \ B \leq 1 0 ] \right )$$

We get this because of the fact that Bob rolls again with probability 1 2 , which is when he rolls at most 10 . Then, the probability Alice wins is going to change by P [ W ] -P [ W | B ≤ 10] .

To calculate P [ W | B ≤ 10] , this is simply just average all the cases where B = b for 1 ≤ b ≤ 10 , as when B ≤ 10 , the value is uniformly distributed on the first 10 positive integers. Therefore,

$$\mathbb { P } [ W \, | \, B \leq 1 0 ] = \frac { 1 } { 1 0 } \sum _ { b = 1 } ^ { 1 0 } 1 - \frac { b } { 3 0 } = \frac { 4 9 } { 6 0 }$$

Therefore, we get that

$$\mathbb { P } [ W ] = \frac { 3 9 } { 6 0 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left ( \frac { 3 9 } { 6 0 } - \frac { 4 9 } { 6 0 } \right ) = \frac { 1 7 } { 3 0 }$$

## 685 Pricing Put Spread

Company :

## Prompt:

We have two puts: a put at strike K 1 = 20 and a put at K 2 = 24 . We want to create a put spread. In other words, we will short the K = 20 put and long the K = 24 put. Find the best upper bound for the time0 price of the spread. You have access to the underlying, with S 0 = 23 and bonds that pay 1 at timeT with initial price B 0 = 0 . 9 .