e -2 y ) dxdy . We can now evaluate this as

$$\int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } 8 e ^ { - 2 y } ( 1 - e ^ { - 2 y } ) \int _ { 2 y } ^ { \infty } e ^ { - x } - e ^ { - 2 x } d x d y = \int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } 4 e ^ { - 4 y } ( 2 - e ^ { - 2 y } ) ( 1 - e ^ { - 2 y } ) d y = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

## 651 Laser Game

Company : None

## Prompt:

Mordecai has a large target of radius 10 and a laser pointer. He is clumsy, so he points the laser at a uniformly random point on the target. Let D represent the random distance from the laser to the center of the target. He offers you to play the following game: Mordecai points the laser at the target one time. Before doing so, you fix a value 0 ≤ r ≤ 10 . If your laser is within distance r away from the center, you must pay Mordecai $(10 -r ) . Otherwise, Mordecai pays you $ r . Find the value of r that maximizes your expected winnings from this game.

## Explanation:

If we pick r , the probability that the dart is within a radius r of the center is r 100 , as that is the ratio of the area of the circle of radius r to the circle of radius 10 . This means the probability it is outside that circle is 1 -r 2 100 . Thus, our expected profit when we select r is p ( r ) = r 2 100 · -(10 -r )+ ( 1 -r 2 100 ) · r = -r 2 10 + r = -r ( r 10 -1 ) . The maximum of a downwards facing parabola is halfway between the zeroes. The zeroes here are r = 0 , 10 . Therefore, the maximum value is at r = 5 .

## 652 Contracts and Pricing II

Company : None

## Prompt:

Steve wants to buy Amy's house 6 months in the future. However, house prices have been volatile lately; the value of Amy's house in 6 months is equal to its current market value scaled by a constant C , where C ∼ Unif ([0 . 6 , 1 . 6]) . Amy offers to sell the following contract: Steve receives the right but not the obligation to, in 6 months, purchase Amy's house at its current market value instead of its value then. Amy is willing to negotiate the price of the contract. What is the fair price for Amy's contract as a proportion of her home's current market value?

## Explanation:

Let G denote Steve's gain after purchasing the contract and rationally deciding to either purchase or forgo the purchase of Amy's house 6 months in the future. Let Amy's house's current value be denoted as v . Let

2