die from a third party. Otherwise, neither of you receive anything. Assume both players play optimally. Let s be the number of sides you select and p be the expected payout. Find sp .

## Explanation:

The optimal strategy is going to be the same for both players due to the symmetry of the game. We also immediately know that s ≥ 3 because for s = 1 , 2 , 3 , regardless of what is rolled by each player, you will receive your payout. Therefore, there is no benefit to select s = 1 or 2 .

What we need here is a Nash Equilibrium. In other words, neither player can improve their expected earnings by increasing the value on their die. Therefore, suppose the equilibrium is (3 , 3) . If this was the case, then if your opponent changes their die to 4 sides, they shouldn't be any better off. Clearly the expected value for both players with 3 -sided dice each is 2 , as they receive payment regardless. However, if your opponent changes to a 4 -sided die, they now have an expected payout of 2 . 5 , as they will still get the money regardless of what is rolled. Therefore, s ≥ 4 now.

Now, we need to compute the same for (4 , 4) and (4 , 5) . If both players select 4 , the expected payout for each player is

$$1 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 4 } + 2 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 4 } + 3 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 4 } + 4 \cdot \frac { 3 } { 1 6 } = \frac { 9 } { 4 }$$

This is because the outcome where both roll a 4 is now worth 0 , so when you roll a 4 , there are only 3 possible outcomes of the other player where you get that money. In the case (4 , 5) , the expected payout for the player rolling a 5 is

$$1 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 5 } + 2 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 5 } + 3 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 5 } + 4 \cdot \frac { 3 } { 2 0 } + 5 \cdot \frac { 2 } { 2 0 } = \frac { 2 3 } { 1 0 } > \frac { 9 } { 4 }$$

Therefore, if you select 4 sides, the other player would select more than 4 sides and have a higher expected payout. Therefore, s = 5 or 6 now.

We now need to compute this for (5 , 5) and (5 , 6) . If both players select 5 , the expected payout for each is

$$1 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 5 } + 2 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 5 } + 3 \cdot \frac { 4 } { 2 5 } + 4 \cdot \frac { 3 } { 2 5 } + 5 \cdot \frac { 2 } { 2 5 } = \frac { 4 9 } { 2 5 }$$

If you select 5 and the other player selects 6 , then your opponent's expected payout is

$$1 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 6 } + 2 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 6 } + 3 \cdot \frac { 4 } { 3 0 } + 4 \cdot \frac { 3 } { 3 0 } + 5 \cdot \frac { 2 } { 3 0 } + 6 \cdot \frac { 1 } { 3 0 } = \frac { 1 1 } { 6 } < \frac { 4 9 } { 2 5 }$$

This means that the other player is not better off by increasing the number of sides on their die.

The above implies that (5 , 5) is our equilibrium, so s = 5 and p = 49 25 . The product sp = 49 5 .