## Explanation:

Correlation is not a function of sample size, and thus correlation increases by 0.

## 181 Minimal Variance

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X 1 and X 2 be two independent random variables with variance 25 and 100 , respectively. Find the value of 0 ≤ c ≤ 1 that minimizes the variance of Y = cX 1 +(1 -c ) X 2 .

## Explanation:

Computing Var ( Y ) is quite easy, as X 1 and X 2 are independent. Thus, we can just sum the variances of each term. Namely,

$$V a r ( Y ) = V a r ( c X _ { 1 } + ( 1 - c ) X _ { 2 } ) = c ^ { 2 } V a r ( X _ { 1 } ) + ( 1 - c ) ^ { 2 } V a r ( X _ { 2 } ) = 2 5 c ^ { 2 } + 1 0 0 ( 1 - c ) ^ { 2 }$$

We just need to maximize the RHS as a function of c . Taking the derivative in c , we get that the maximizing c satisfies

## 182 Hit Or Miss

Company : None

## Prompt:

A particle starts at (4, 4). Each turn, it moves either 1 unit in the -x direction, 1 unit in the -y direction, or 1 unit in each of the -x and -y directions. During a turn, the particle decides how it will move randomly such that the probability of each option is 1 3 . The particle repeatedly takes turns until it hits the x or y axes for the first time. Compute the probability that the particle hits the origin.

## Explanation:

In order to hit the origin, the particle must arrive at (1 , 1) . To do so, the particle can (1) move 3 left and 3 down, (2) move 2 left, 2 down, and 1 diagonal, (3) move 1 left, 1 down, and 2 diagonal, or (4) move down 3 consecutive diagonals. The probability that the particle arrives at (1, 1) is then

$$\frac { 1 } { 3 ^ { 6 } } \cdot \begin{pmatrix} 6 \\ 3 \end{pmatrix} + \frac { 1 } { 3 ^ { 5 } } \cdot \begin{pmatrix} 5 \\ 2 , 2 , 1 \end{pmatrix} + \frac { 1 } { 3 ^ { 4 } } \cdot \begin{pmatrix} 4 \\ 1 , 1 , 2 \end{pmatrix} + \frac { 1 } { 3 ^ { 3 } } = \frac { 2 4 5 } { 3 ^ { 6 } }$$

$$5 0 c - 2 0 0 ( 1 - c ) = 0 \iff c = \frac { 4 } { 5 }$$