## Prompt:

We want to find the fair-value of a European binary call on an underlying S with initial value S 0 = 4 . At each time step, the underlying can either grow by 90% or shrink by 30% . At expiry ( T = 2 ), the call will pay 1 if S &gt; 2 and 0 otherwise. Round to 3 decimal points.

## Explanation:

In order to price properly, we need to use risk-neutral probabilities. We solve the following equation to obtain the risk-neutral probability of up and down moves. In other words, our fair value is the expected future price.

$$q * 1 . 9 + ( 1 - q ) * . 3 = 1$$

Solving for q , we get q = . 4375 . We can then populate the payoffs at T = 2 and iterate backwards. Our underlying will either become 14 . 44 , 2 . 28 , . 36 . 2 of which will have a payoff of 1 and the other a payoff of 0 . Using these risk neutral probabilities, we can iterate backwards to get our expected future price. This value is 0 . 684 . Another interpretation is that this is the risk-neutral probability that the underlying ends with a value larger than 2 .

## 1101 Dice Labels

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

How many distinct ways can you label a 6 sided dice if you wipe off all the numbers? Arrangements that can be formed by rotating the die around are not considered distinct.

## Explanation:

Lets start with placing the number 1 on any side and let's consider it the top. Then thereâs 5 different numbers that can be on the opposite side of the dice. Finally, with the 4 remaining numbers, there's 4! different orderings of the numbers but this counts the same orderings but starting on different faces so we divide by 4 . Think about it this way, lets say we have 1 on the top and 6 on the bottom. The last 4 numbers are 2, 3, 4, and 5. There are 4! orderings of these numbers. But let's specifically consider the order 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 . This order is the exact same as 5 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 4 , 5 , 2 , 3 and 3 , 4 , 5 , 2 . As you can see, any order will have 4 different orderings and placements, so we divide by 4 . Putting everything together, 5 ∗ 4! / 4 = 5 ∗ 3! = 30 .

## 1102 Statistical Test Review VII

Company :