## 845 Lapping

Company :

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob now are in NASCAR. They continually race around a circular track. Alice can drive a lap in

6

minutes, while Bob takes

9

minutes to drive a lap.

back up to Bob a lap ahead of him?

## Explanation:

We can think about this in terms of number of laps completed per Alice lap. For every lap Alice completes,

Bob completes

2

/

3

of a lap.

This is since it takes Bob at the moment Alice completes

3

3

/

2

as long to complete a lab. Therefore, we note that laps, Bob completes his second lap, so Alice will be exactly

Bob at this instant. Alice completes

1

lap ahead of minutes, so the answer is

## 846 Coin Pair II

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Four fair coins appear in front of you.

laps after

18

18

.

You flip all four at once and observe the outcomes of the coins. After seeing the outcomes, you may flip any pair of coins again unlimited amounts of times.

You may not flip a single coin without flipping another. Assuming optimal play, find the expected number of heads that appear.

## Explanation:

For each pair we flip again, we have a positive probability of obtaining

2

heads.

If we are to flip every pair of coins, regardless of the initial outcome, enough times, we would end with all heads. Therefore, the answer

is just

4

, as with probability

1

, we will obtain

## 847 Triangular Partition

Company : None

## Prompt:

A point is chosen within triangle

CAP

/triangle

P

ABC

is no more than one fourth that of

.

HHHH

at some point.

Compute the probability that the area of

ABC

/triangle

.

3

After how many minutes will Alice lap Bob i.e.

catch

/triangle

ABP

/triangle

,

BCP

/triangle

, or