## Prompt:

Anna and Brenda are playing a game. They repeatedly toss a coin. Anna wins if 3 heads appear in a row. Brenda wins if 3 tails appear in a row. What is the expected number of coin tosses for a winner to be determined?

## Explanation:

After building a transition graph, we find can produce the following set of equations for the expcted time to absorption:

$$\mu _ { H } & = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \mu _ { T } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \mu _ { H H } \\ \mu _ { T } & = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \mu _ { H } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \mu _ { T T } \\ \mu _ { H H } & = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \mu _ { H } \\ \mu _ { H H } & = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \mu _ { T } \\ \intertext { a t h e g i n n i g w h s t a t e T , w e e x p } \intertext { a t h e g i n n i g w h s t a t e T , w e e x p }$$

Solving, we find µ T = 6 , meaning that beginning with state T , we expect 6 more flips before 3 in a row is reached. By symmetry, µ H = 6 . By law of total expectation, we expect 6 more flips before 3 in a row is reached after the first coin has been flipped. Adding the first coin flip, our final answer is 7.

## 61 Cats and Dogs I

Company : None

## Prompt:

Six dogs and six cats are sitting at a circular table uniformly at random. Find the probability that there are at least four dogs in a row somewhere in the circle.

## Explanation:

Label the seats 1 -12 . Saying that there are at least 4 dogs in a row somewhere is equivalent to saying that at some position, reading the animals off clockwise and abbreviating dog as D and cat as C, we have the sequence CDDDD. Let A i be the event that this happens starting from position i going clockwise, we want to find P [ 12 ⋃ i =1 A i ] . Note that the A i events are disjoint because it is impossible for more than one of them to occur since we would either have cats interfering with the dogs mid-sequence or they are completely separate sequences, which is not possible due to there only being 6 dogs. Therefore, the probability of the union is the sum of the probabilities and we get that our probability of interest is 12 ∑ i =1 P [ A i ] . Further note that each of the spots are exchangeable (we assigned the labels arbitrarily), so this sum is just 12 P [ A i ] . All that is left is to compute P [ A i ] .