## Explanation:

Let W 1 denote the event that the white ball is drawn on the first draw, and W 2 denote the event that the white ball is drawn on the second draw. W c 1 and W c 2 would then represent the events of drawing a black ball on draws 1 and 2 , respectively. We want to find P [ W 2 | W 1 ] . Let the event U i be when urn i is selected. Since we select the urn uniformly random, P [ U i ] = 1 n , for all 1 ≤ i ≤ n . Suppose we select urn 1 ≤ k ≤ n . There is 1 white ball and 2 k -1 black balls in it. There is independence between draws, as the ball selected is replaced after the first draw. Thus, on either draw, since we select the ball completely at random, P [ W 1 | U k ] = P [ W 2 | U k ] = 1 2 k , and P [ W c 1 | U k ] = P [ W c 2 | U k ] = 2 k -1 2 k . We have the conditioning on U k , as we assumed that we are in urn k . Thus, the probability of two white balls, given we are in urn k , by independence is just P [ W 1 W 2 | U k ] = P [ W 1 | U k ] P [ W 2 | U k ] = 1 4 k . The second draw from the urn is either a white ball or a black ball, so the other case to consider is if we are in urn k , what is the probability the second ball is black? By independence:

$$\mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } ^ { c } \ | \ U _ { k } ] = \mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } \ | \ U _ { k } ] \mathbb { P } [ W _ { 2 } \ | \ U _ { k } ] = \frac { 2 ^ { k } - 1 } { 4 ^ { k } } = \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { k } } - \frac { 1 } { 4 ^ { k } } .$$

We want P [ W 2 | W 1 ] = P [ W 1 W 2 ] P [ W 1 ] by conditional probability. On the top, we condition on all n urns, as we can get two white balls from urn 1, from urn 2, etc. By the Law of Total Probability, we have:

$$\mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } ] = \mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } \ | \ U _ { 1 } ] \mathbb { P } [ U _ { 1 } ] + \mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } \ | \ U _ { 2 } ] \mathbb { P } [ U _ { 2 } ] + \cdots + \mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } \ | \ U _ { n } ] \mathbb { P } [ U _ { n } ]$$

We know that each P [ U i ] = 1 n , as well as that for all 1 ≤ i ≤ n , P [ W 1 W 2 | U i ] = 1 4 i . By substitution:

$$\mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } ] & = \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { n } + \frac { 1 } { 4 ^ { 2 } } \cdot \frac { 1 } { n } + \cdots + \frac { 1 } { 4 ^ { n } } \cdot \frac { 1 } { n } \\ & = \frac { 1 } { n } \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { n } \left ( \frac { 1 } { 4 } \right ) ^ { j }$$

On the bottom, we can have the first draw be a white ball by having the first being a white ball and the second being white OR having the second draw being black. Thus, the denominator is going to be P [ W 1 ] = P [ W 1 W 2 ] + P [ W 1 W c 2 ] , as those two events are disjoint. The first term in this sum is the numerator. We are going to apply the Law of Total Probability to our denominator by conditioning on the urns again to get:

$$\mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } ^ { c } ] = \mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } ^ { c } \ | \ U _ { 1 } ] \mathbb { P } [ U _ { 1 } ] + \mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } ^ { c } \ | \ U _ { 2 } ] \mathbb { P } [ U _ { 2 } ] + \cdots + \mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } ^ { c } \ | \ U _ { n } ] \mathbb { P } [ U _ { n } ]$$

The P [ U i ] term is the same as in the numerator, and we also have that:

$$\mathbb { P } [ W _ { 1 } W _ { 2 } ^ { c } \, | \, U _ { i } ] = \frac { 2 ^ { i } - 1 } { 4 ^ { i } } = \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { i } } - \frac { 1 } { 4 ^ { i } } , \forall 1 \leq i \leq n$$