Note that this equation is only valid for 0 &lt; x &lt; 1 . This is because for 0 &lt; x &lt; 1 , we can exceed x with one random variable. Otherwise, for x &gt; 1 , the RHS is m ( x ) -m ( x -1) . It is a good exercise to verify this. As ln(2) &lt; 1 , the above is irrelevant for this question, so m (ln(2)) = e ln(2) = 2 .

## 724 True Statement

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

On a sheet of paper, you have 100 statements written down. The first statement says, "at most 0 of these 100 statements are true." The second says, "at most 1 of these 100 statements are true." More generally, the n th says, "at most n -1 of these 100 statements are true. How many of the statements are true?

## Explanation:

We know that the first statement must be false, as if it was true, it would contradict itself that none of the statements are true. Therefore, let's consider the second statement. If it was false, then this implies that at least 2 statements are true. However, the statement after says that at most 2 statements are true. If that were to be true, then that claims exactly 2 statements would be true, of which one is itself. However, every statement that says at most k &gt; 2 statements are true would also be true, causing a logical contradiction. Therefore, the third statement must be false.

The trick here is to notice that for some threshold r , all the statements saying "at least r of the statements are true" must be true for everything at least that r , and false for everything below it. For such an r , that statement being true implies that both at most and at least r statements are true, meaning exactly r statements are true. Namely, there must be 100 -r statements that are false and r statements that are true. To find that threshold r , we just equate the above, yielding r = 50 statements must be true. We can verify this by seeing that the 50 statements "at most 50 , 51 , . . . , 99 statements are true" must be true and other 50 are false.

## 725 Limited Urns

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose that there are n identical urns each containing white and black balls. The i th urn, where 1 ≤ i ≤ n , contains 1 white ball and 2 i -1 black balls. You randomly select an urn and then draw one ball at random from it. The ball is white. Let p ( n ) be the probability that if you replace this ball and again draw a ball at random from the same urn then the ball drawn on the second occasion is also white. Compute lim n →∞ p ( n ) .