## Explanation:

Using the same idea as Rabbit Hop I, we are looking for subsets of { 1 , 2 , . . . , 9 } that have odd size. This is because we have to select an odd amount of integers 1 -9 such that when we move to step 10 , the total number of moves is even. In other words, we need to find the number of odd-sized subsets of a set of size 9 .

We can match up odd and even subsets by matching a subset A ⊆ { 1 , 2 , . . . , 9 } with odd cardinality to A c , which would have even cardinality. This is since if | A | = k , where k is odd, 9 -k must be even, so we have a one-to-one matching of odd and even subsets, so there must be equal amounts of odd and even subsets. Thus, there are 1 2 · 2 9 = 256 such paths.

## 356 Primitive Preference

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

On Earth II, every couple prefers to have a baby boy over a baby girl. Assume that there is an equally likely chance of having a boy or girl, and that the genders of children are mutually independent. If each couple continues on having more children until they have a boy, in which they will stop having more children, what does the percentage of boys in this society approach over time?

## Explanation:

The percentage of boys in this society is dependent on nature, not on couples' preferences. Every newborn child has an equal probability of being either a boy or a girl, regardless of the gender of any other children. Thus, the percentage of boys in this society approaches 50%.

## 357 Statistical Test Review V

Company :

## Prompt:

Rishab wants to use a Z test to test a hypothesis involving the population mean. Which of the following conditions must be met in order for Rishab to go through with the Z test? (1) Population variance must be known, (2) sample must be a random sample of the population, (3) distribution of sample mean must be approximately normal, (4) the sample size is at least 30. Please respond with the conditions concatenated in increasing order. For example, if 1 and 3 must be met, respond with 13.