gives the total number of k -cycles, as we need to remove rotations ( k such rotations per k -cycle). Using linearity of expectation, we have that

$$\mathbb { E } [ T ] = \frac { 1 } { k } \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 2 n } \mathbb { E } [ X _ { i } ] = \frac { 2 n } { k } \mathbb { E } [ X _ { 1 } ]$$

E [ X 1 ] is just the probability 1 belongs to a k -cycle. There are (2 n )! permutations of { 1 , 2 , . . . , 2 n } . There are ( 2 n -1 k -1 ) ways to pick k -1 more elements to belong to the k -cycle. Now that we have selected the elements, there are ( k -1)! ways to arrange those elements. Then, there are (2 n -k )! ways to arrange the other 2 n -k elements. This yields that our probability that 1 belongs to a cycle is

$$\frac { \left ( \begin{matrix} 2 n - 1 \\ k - 1 \end{matrix} \right ) ( k - 1 ) ! ( 2 n - k ) ! } { ( 2 n ) ! } = \frac { 1 } { 2 n }$$

Therefore, E [ T ] = 1 k after substituting in.

The above tells us that the expected number of k -cycles for 1 ≤ k ≤ 2 n is 1 k . Therefore, E [ C n ] is just the sum of the terms above from n +1 to 2 n . Namely,

$$\mathbb { E } [ C _ { n } ] = \sum _ { k = n + 1 } ^ { 2 n } \frac { 1 } { k } = \sum _ { k = n + 1 } ^ { 2 n } \frac { 1 } { \frac { k } { n } } \cdot \frac { 1 } { n }$$

This is starting to look like a Riemann Integral. Let x = k n so that dx = 1 n (this is a discrete sum currently, so dx is just change between terms). The lower bound of our integral is x L = n +1 n → 1 , while the upper bound is x U = 2 n n = 2 . As n →∞ , this sum converges to the Riemann Integral

$$\int _ { 1 } ^ { 2 } \frac { 1 } { x } d x = \ln ( 2 )$$

Therefore, q = 2 .

## 185 Limiting Values II

Company : None

## Prompt:

You roll two fair dice until a sum other than 7 appears and are paid that amount. What is the fair value of this game?