## Prompt:

An urn contains 20 balls colored each of the 7 colors of the rainbow ( 140 total balls). We select balls one-byone without replacement. Given that in the first 70 draws we selected 5 more red balls than yellow, find the probability the 71 st ball drawn is yellow.

## Explanation:

Having the 5 more red balls drawn than yellow does not affect our expectation on the number of balls drawn for any of the other colors in the first 70 draws. You can see this by considering a combined "red and yellow" color. Then, in this case, we would expect each of the other 5 colors to be drawn with probability 1 7 on the next draw, as the drawing process is exchangeable.

Now, if r and y represent the probabilities of a red and yellow ball, respectively, on the next draw, then we know that r + y = 2 7 , as that is the remaining probability left after giving the other 5 colors 1 7 probability each. However, note that we selected 5 more red balls than yellow in the first 70 draws. Therefore, there are 5 fewer red balls left in the urn than yellow. This implies that r = y -5 70 = y -1 14 , as there are 70 balls left and 5 fewer of them are red as opposed to yellow.

$$T h e r e f o r e , \, w e \, g e t \ 2 y - \frac { 1 } { 1 4 } = \frac { 2 } { 7 } , \, s o \ y = \frac { 5 } { 2 8 } .$$

## 387 Circular Cut

Company :

## Prompt:

Three points are uniformly at random selected from the circumference of the unit circle. These three points divide the circle into three arcs. Find the expected length of the arc that contains the point (1 , 0) . The answer is in the form q π for a rational number q . Find q .

## Explanation:

The arc containing (1 , 0) contains two pieces: the clockwise and counter-clockwise piece. By symmetry, the lengths of these two pieces are equal in expectation. Therefore, let L be the length of the clockwise piece. 2 L is the length of our entire arc containing (1 , 0) . Using the identity E [ L ] = ∫ 2 π 0 P [ L ≥ x ] dx , we can compute the expected length in a clean fashion. Namely, P [ L ≥ x ] is just the probability that there are no points in (0 , x ] . As we have 3 points, this probability is simply ( 1 -x 2 π ) 3 , as each is independently not in that arc