## 359 Lollipop Mix

Company :

## Prompt:

How many distinguishable permutations of LOLLIPOP are there that start and end with the same letter?

## Explanation:

LOLLIPOP consists of 3 L, 2 O, 2 P, and 1 I. There are a total of 8! 3!2!2! = 1680 total distinguishable permutations of LOLLIPOP. We find the probability that a random permutation starts and ends with the same letter. Let this event be S .

We condition on the first letter of our permutation. Namely, P [ S ] = P [ S | L ] P [ L ] + P [ S | O ] P [ O ] + P [ S | P ] P [ P ] + P [ S | I ] P [ I ] . The last term is 0 , as if we start with I , we can't end with I , as there is only one I total. The middle two terms are the same, as there are 2 of each letter in LOLLIPOP. We do the calculations for just O . Namely, P [ O ] = 2 8 , as each letter is equally likely to appear first. Then, given we start with O , the probability we end with O is 1 7 , as only one of the 7 remaining letters is O . Thus, each of the two middle terms is 1 28

$$L a s t l y , \, \mathbb { P } [ L ] & = \frac { 3 } { 8 } \, \text {and} \, \mathbb { P } [ S \, | \, L ] = \frac { 2 } { 7 } \, \text { by the same logic above.  Thus, this first term is } \frac { 3 } { 2 8 } . \, \text {Adding these all} \\ \text {up, } \mathbb { P } [ S ] & = \frac { 5 } { 2 8 } , \, \text {so the total number of permutations that start and end with the same letter is } \frac { 5 } { 2 8 } \cdot 1 6 8 0 = 3 0 0 .$$

## 360 4 and 5 Sum

Company :

## Prompt:

How many positive integers at most 1000 can be written as the sum of some amount of 4 s and/or 5 s? For example, 21 = 4 + 4 + 4 + 4 + 5

## Explanation:

Since 4 and 5 are relatively prime, in theory, it should be all of them, as we know that the Diophantine equation 4 x +5 y = d has a solution ( x, y ) ∈ Z × Z if and only if gcd (4 , 5) = 1 | d . This is not required for this problem, as we can intuitively see that 4 ≡ -1 mod 5 , so some combination of 4 and 5 should yield each integer. All multiplies of 5 can be formed by just writing it as a sum of some amount of 5 s. Then, we can