## Explanation:

Correlation is a measure of linear association between X and Y that is unaffected by scaling and shifting. Thus, we have that Corr ( aX + b, cY + d ) = sign ( ac ) Corr ( X,Y ) . In this case, sign ( ac ) = -1 , so our answer is -1 · -0 . 4 = 0 . 4 .

## 626 Leftwards Frog

Company :

## Prompt:

A frog is hopping between 8 lily pads labeled 1 -8 from left to right. The frog starts on lily pad 1 . At each turn, the frog hops to a lily pad that it has not been to yet. Find the probability the frog made exactly 1 leftwards hop after visiting all of the stones.

## Explanation:

The frog must hop 7 times to visit all of the lily pads, so there are 7! ways it can move. Consider the set S = { 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 } . These are the unvisited vertices of the frog. Some arrangement where the frog makes exactly one leftwards hop is exactly the same as asking how many ways we can partition S into two subsets, say A and B , where the frog hops from 1 to all of the lily pads in A , ordered from left to right and then all of the lily pads in B left to right. For example, let A = { 2 , 3 , 6 , 7 } and B = { 4 , 5 , 8 } . The frog would then hop in the order 2 → 3 → 6 → 7 → 4 → 5 → 8 . However, we have to be careful here, as if either B is empty or the entire set { 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 } , no left hop occurs. However, there are other cases as well. Namely, to not left hop, the set A must contain elements such that max ( A ) &lt; min ( B ) . This occurs exactly when A contains the starting sequence of the elements. This would mean we exclude A = { 2 } , { 2 , 3 } , { 2 , 3 , 4 } , . . . , { 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 } (we already excluded the full set). This adds 6 additional sets we must exclude. Therefore, Therefore, we must remove 8 elements from the 2 7 = 128 possibilities of how we can create the subsets. Therefore, our answer is

## 627 Tigers Love Sheep

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

Tigers on this magical grass island are rational and prioritize survival first and eating sheep over grass second. Assume that at each time step, only one tiger can eat one sheep, and that tiger itself will become a sheep after it eats the sheep. One hundred tigers and one sheep are on the magic grass island. How many sheep are left?

$$\frac { 2 ^ { 7 } - 8 } { 7 ! } = \frac { 1 } { 4 2 }$$