## Prompt:

n

married couples ( n husbands and n wives) sit at a round table of 2 n seats at random. The seating scheme is such that the seats must alternate between men and women. Find the number of couples that will sit together E [ N ] on average. Assume n &gt; 2 .

## Explanation:

Let I i be the indicator that couple i sits together. Then we have that T = n I i counts the number of couples that sit together total. By linearity of expectation, E [ T ] = n ∑ i =1 E [ I i ] . We have that E [ I i ] is the probability couple i sits together. Fix the husband within couple i at an arbitrary seat in the table. The two people on either side of him must be women, as there is an alternating pattern at the table. Therefore, of the n spots that this man's wife can sit at, 2 are adjacent to him, and all arrangements are equally likely. Therefore, the probability of this is just 2 n . Therefore, we have that E [ I i ] = 2 n , so E [ T ] = n 2 n = 2 .

## 785 Dangerous Doubles

Company : Old Mission

## Prompt:

Two fair coins are flipped at once. You receive $2 if exactly one heads that appears, but you lose $7 if you flip two heads. What is your expected profit/loss on this game if you play once?

## Explanation:

The four possible outcomes of this game are TT,HT,TH, and HH . TT gives you $0 , as there are no heads. HT and TH both give you $2 , as there is exactly one head. HH makes you pay $7 by the information in the question. As all four outcomes are equally likely, our expected profit/loss on the game is 0 + 2 + 2 -7 4 = -3 4 .

## 786 Fair Bounty II

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

You're on a game show! The host tells you that $200 is located behind 2 of 7 doors. The other 5 doors have nothing behind them. You have no idea which doors the money is behind. You keep selecting randomly until you find the first door with money behind it. You do not select any doors that you have selected prior. If each door opening costs $ x and the game is fair, what is x ?

∑ i =1 ∑ i =1