## Prompt:

There are five options on the TSLA options chain right now, all of which are expiring at the end of the month, and with strikes 165 , 170 , 175 , 180 , and 185 . Suppose the put options respectively cost $9 , $12 , $14 , $14 . 5 , and $15 and the call options cost $15 , $14 , $13 , $12 , and $9 . Is there an arbitrage opportunity? If so, enter the minimum amount you are guaranteed to make, if no opportunity exists, enter -1 .

## Explanation:

We can see here, we have quite an unusual options chain we can take advantage of. As our chains are near inverses of each other, assume the underlying is selling at $175 . Usually, on a chain, when the strike of our call option increases, the call option's value approaches full value, meaning the difference between our prices should be close to the difference in our strike prices. In this example, as our call option increases in strike price, we would expect the prices to get increasingly farther away. In this case, the prices actually start converging, showing our chain is improperly formed.

The same is true on the put side, we should see the difference in price increase as the strike price decreases, but again, the opposite is true.

In order to take advantage of this, we can use an iron condor strategy. Usually an iron condor is used to take advantage of a neutral market, but in this case, we just care about the large mispricings in the chain. We use a put credit and a call credit spread, netting $12 -$9 of credit on both sides, with a max loss of $5 . So 3 · 2 -5 = $1 . And as all contracts control 100 shares, we get $1 · 100 = $100 .

## 324 Trinomial Call Pricing I

Company :

## Prompt:

We want to price a European call option of strike K = 8 using a 1 -period trinomial tree. The initial stock price is S 0 = 8 and has a 50% chance of having a 0% increase, a 30% chance of a 50% decrease, and a 20% chance of a 30% increase.

What is the time0 price of the option?

## Explanation:

First, note that the probabilities are given rather than calculating any risk-neutral probabilities. This is due to the fact that there are infinite probabilities that can be used (i.e the system of equations that needs to be