## Explanation:

We first derive a recurrence relation for p i in terms of p i -1 . We must condition on whether or not P i has the original information. If P i has the original information, which occurs with probability p i -1 , then P i transfers this information correctly to P i +1 with probability p . Alternatively, if P i has the incorrect information, which occurs with probability 1 -p i -1 , then the probability that P i +1 gets the correct information is 1 -p , as P i must change it up. Therefore

$$p _ { i } = p p _ { i - 1 } + ( 1 - p ) ( 1 - p _ { i - 1 } ) = ( 2 p - 1 ) p _ { i - 1 } + ( 1 - p )$$

Now, we let i on both sides (which implicitly assumes the limit exists), and let lim p i = p ∗ . Then

$$p ^ { * } = ( 2 p - 1 ) p ^ { * } + ( 1 - p ) , \, \text {so solving for } p ^ { * } , \, p ^ { * } = \frac { 1 - p } { 2 - 2 p } = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

→ ∞ i →∞

If you want to rigorously justify the existence of the limit, you can derive the explicit expression for p i using recursive methods.

## 1096 Numerous Uniforms

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that X 1 , . . . , X 7 ∼ Unif (0 , 1) . Find the PDF of Y = X 1 X 2 . . . X 7 . The answer is in the form f ( x ) = ( -log( x )) a b I (0 , 1) ( x ) for integers a and b . Find a + b .

## Explanation:

We solve this for general n and then plug in at the end. The trick here is to take the logarithm of both sides and note that if X ∼ Unif (0 , 1) , then -log( X ) ∼ Exp (1) . The reason we want to take the logarithm is because of the fact that the logarithm will turn a product into a sum. Therefore, we have that

$$\log ( Y ) = \log ( X _ { 1 } \dots X _ { n } ) = \log ( X _ { 1 } ) + \dots + \log ( X _ { n } )$$

Multiplying each side by -1 ,

$$- \log ( Y ) = ( - \log ( X _ { 1 } ) ) + ( - \log ( X _ { 2 } ) ) + \cdots + ( - \log ( X _ { n } ) )$$

Note that since each of the X i are independent, the sequence of -log( X i ) are also independent. Since each one is Exp (1) distributed, then we have that the RHS is the sum of n IID Exp (1) random variables. Therefore, the RHS is Gamma ( n, 1) distributed. We have that -log( Y ) = G , where G ∼ Gamma ( n, 1) . In other words,