the healthy person is infected and becomes sick. Once a person becomes sick, they are assumed to be sick for the rest of the dinner. Find the maximum amount of time (in minutes) until every person in the hall becomes sick.

## Explanation:

Consider grouping the 1000 people into 25 groups of 40 people. In 25 rounds of 39 minutes each, every person in a given bubble talks to every other person in that bubble. Additionally, each of the other bubbles are paired up.

Suppose the original sick person is in Bubble 25 and the last healthy person is in Bubble 24 . In round k , we can have all the people in bubble b talk to all of the people in bubble 24 -b + k mod 25 , where 0 maps to 25 . Therefore, we see that after k rounds, the sick people belong to people in Bubble 25 and Bubbles 1 , 2 , . . . , k -1 . This is since at round 1 , Bubble 25 talks with itself. Afterwards, it talks with Bubbles 1 , 2 , . . . , k -1 . Therefore, Bubble 24 will be completely untouched until after the first 24 rounds, which is 936 minutes. Then, in the 937 th minute, everyone in the 24 th bubble talks to everyone in the 25 th bubble, meaning all are infected in the first minute. Therefore, after 937 minutes, everyone is infected.

## 756 Exponential Brownian Motion

Company : Morgan Stanley

## Prompt:

Let W t be a standard Brownian Motion. Find the sum of the factorials of the values of n where X t = W n t is a martingale.

## Explanation:

Using Ito's lemma with f ( x ) = x n , we have that

$$d X _ { t } = n W _ { t } ^ { n - 1 } d W _ { t } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } n ( n - 1 ) W _ { t } ^ { n - 2 } d [ W , W ] _ { t } = n W _ { t } ^ { n - 1 } d W _ { t } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } n ( n - 1 ) W _ { t } ^ { n - 2 } d t$$

For this to be a martingale, the dt term must vanish, which occurs precisely when n = 0 , 1 . Therefore, 0! + 1! = 2 .

## 757 Sheep Stealing

Company :