stars and 4 bars. There are a total of ( 54 4 ) possible ways to set 4 of the 54 symbols to bars, with the remaining being the stars. Thus, the number of ways to invest the $50 million into the five asset classes is:

$$\left ( \begin{matrix} 5 4 \\ 4 \end{matrix} \right ) = \frac { 5 4 ! } { 5 0 ! 4 ! } = 3 1 6 2 5 1$$

## 909 Soda Machines

Company : None

## Prompt:

A soda machine is designed to release not more than 7 ounces of soda per cup, on average. To test this machine, you fill 8 cups of soda and measure their volumes. The mean and standard deviation of the 8 measurements were 7.1 ounces and 0.12 ounce, respectively. What is value of the appropriate test statistic to validate the machine's claim? Assume random sampling, variance homogeneity, and that dispensing volume is approximately normally distributed.

## Explanation:

Since the sample size is less than 30, we utilize a t test where H 0 : µ = 7 and H a : µ = 7 . The t statistic is:

$$t = \frac { \bar { x } - \mu } { \sqrt { \frac { s ^ { 2 } } { n } } } = \frac { 7 . 1 - 7 } { \sqrt { 0 . 1 2 ^ { 2 } / 8 } } \approx 2 . 3 6$$

## 910 Integral Variance IV

Company :

## Prompt:

Let W t be a standard Brownian Motion. Find the variance of X = √ te W 2 t 8 dW t .

## Explanation:

We use a couple of the common lemmas to solve this. Namely, since the integrand is "nice enough" here, we can see that the mean of X is 0 . Therefore, we just need to find the second moment. In particular, since the integrand is square integrable over the interval in question,

$$\mathbb { E } [ X ^ { 2 } ] = \int _ { 0 } ^ { 2 } \mathbb { E } \left [ \left ( \sqrt { t } e ^ { \frac { w _ { t } ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } \right ) ^ { 2 } \right ] d t = \int _ { 0 } ^ { 2 } t \mathbb { E } \left [ e ^ { \frac { w _ { t } ^ { 2 } } { 4 } } \right ] d t$$

As W t ∼ N (0 , t ) , we have that W t = √ tZ , where Z ∼ N (0 , 1) . Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } \left [ e ^ { \frac { w _ { t } ^ { 2 } } { 4 } } \right ] = \mathbb { E } \left [ e ^ { \frac { t } { 4 } Z ^ { 2 } } \right ] = M _ { Z ^ { 2 } } \left ( \frac { t } { 4 } \right )$$

$$\int _ { 0 } ^ { 2 }$$

/negationslash