this symmetry, we can drastically decrease the number of states to find the answer to this question. Let E 0 be the starting state where we donât have any rolls yet. Let E 1 be the states of rolling a 1 , 2 , 5 , or 6 (they all have only one following roll that gets to the goal state) and not previously rolling a number that's a difference of 2 . Let E 2 be the states of rolling a 3 or 4 (both have 2 possible following goal states) and not previously rolling a number that's a difference of 2 . Finally, let E goal be the goal state where the two previous rolls differ by 2 . Then our equations become:

$$E _ { 0 } = \frac { 2 } { 3 } E _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { 2 } + 1$$

$$E _ { 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 6 } E _ { g o a l } + \frac { 2 } { 3 } E _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 6 } E _ { 2 } + 1$$

$$E _ { 2 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { g o a l } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { 2 } + 1$$

$$E _ { g o a l } = 0$$

Solving these systems of equations, we get E 0 = 17 3 .

## 58 Pass the Ball

Company : DRW

## Prompt:

You and 4 other people are sitting in a circle. You are given a ball to start the game. Every second of this game, the person with the ball has three choices they can make. They can either pass the ball to the left, pass the ball to the right, or keep the ball (all with equal probability). This game goes on till someone keeps the ball. What is the probability that you are the person to end the game and keep the ball?

## Explanation:

We can use Markov states to solve this question. You'll notice there is some symmetry in this problem that will allow us to solve this question with less states. The symmetry is in the placement of the other people. For example, the two people immediately next to you can be treated as the same state functionally (since they both behave the exact same), and the two people furthest from you are also functionally the same (again, since they both behave the exact same). Let P 1 be the probability you end with the ball. Let P 2 be the probability that someone immediately next to you has the ball and you are the one to end the game. Finally, let P 3 be the probability that someone furthest from you has the ball and you are the one to end the game. The equations for the states are as follows:

$$P _ { 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } + \frac { 2 } { 3 } P _ { 2 }$$

$$P _ { 2 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } P _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } P _ { 3 }$$