## Explanation:

Let \(X_1\) and \(X_2\) be the value of the cards we select. Then our payout is \(5(X_1+X_2)\) by the question. We have that \(X_1, X_2 \sim \mathrm{DiscreteUnif}(\{1,2,\ldots,35\})\). We are looking for \(\mathbb{E}[5(X_1+X_2)]\). By linearity, this is \(5\mathbb{E}[X_1]+5\mathbb{E}[X_2]\). As the two draws are exchangeable, their means are equal, so this is really just \(10\mathbb{E}[X_1]=10\cdot 18=180\).

## 877 ATM Expiration

Company :

## Prompt:

You have a European call option with a \(\Delta = 0.67\) of strike \(K\) and expiry \(T\). Approximate the probability for a put of strike \(K\) and expiry \(T\) of expiring in-the-money.

## Explanation:

Since \(\Delta \in [0,1]\), this essentially acts as a probability of an option expiring in-the-money. Intuitively, this makes sense. An at-the-money option has \(\Delta \approx 0.5\). The probability of the call expiring in-the-money is \(0.67\), meaning that the probability it expires out-of-the-money is \(0.33\), which is the same probability as a put expiring in-the-money.

## 878 Very Very Normal

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

Let \(X,Y,Z \sim N(12,12)\) IID. Compute \(\mathbb{P}[X-Y>Z]\). The answer is in the form \(\Phi(a)\) for some \(a\). Find \(a\).

## Explanation:

We can write this as \(\mathbb{P}[X-Y-Z>0]\). \(W=X-Y-Z \sim N(-12,36)\) by the properties of independent normal distributions. Therefore, we can write as \(\mathbb{P}[W>0]\), and we can standardize this to obtain \(\mathbb{P}\!\left[\frac{W+12}{6}>\frac{12}{6}\right]\). The LHS is now standard normal, so the answer is \(\Phi(-2)\) by symmetry of the normal distribution. This means \(a=-2\).

## 879 Portfolio Returns

Company : None