## Explanation:

We can interpret R 2 as the proportion of total variability in Y captured by the model on the RHS. As the total variability in Y is constant and including in more factors includes the information about variability captured by each of the factors, we know that the new R 2 must be at least 0 . 05 . We can show 0 . 05 is attainable by letting X 2 = X 1 in an edge case. In that case, the information captured by the new regression is precisely the same as the old regression.

## 340 High Roller

Company : None

## Prompt:

Two fair 6 -sided dice are rolled. You can either keep the product of the observed values or re-roll both dice once for $4 . What is your expected payout on this game under a rational strategy?

## Explanation:

If X and Y represent the individual die outcomes, then XY is our payout. By independence of the dice rolls, E [ XY ] = E [ X ] E [ Y ] = (3 . 5) 2 = 49 4 . If we are to re-roll, then we know the expected value of our second roll would be 49 4 . Therefore, our strategy is to re-roll if our product is 8 or less. This is because 8 would be the first integer that is at least 4 less than the mean product of the two dice, 49 4 .

The probability we obtain a product of 8 or less is 6 + 4 + 2 + 2 + 1 + 1 36 = 4 9 . We obtain these terms from looking at the ways to obtain a product at most 8 by fixing the value of the first die. For example, if you have a 1 on the first die, regardless of your other die value, you will have a product at most 8 , yielding 6 combinations to our total. Therefore, we re-roll with probability 4 9 , in which our expected value is 49 4 -4 = 33 4 for the re-roll. Otherwise, we keep the value of the die. If we keep the value, by drawing out a table that has all the die rolls on the axes and the products at the intersection of rows and columns, one can find that the expected value of the die roll given that it is more than 8 is 92 5 . Therefore, our expected value on the game is 4 33 + 5 92 = 125 .

$$\text {is } \frac { 4 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 3 5 } { 4 } + \frac { 3 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 5 2 } { 5 } = \frac { 1 2 5 } { 9 } .$$

## 341 2D Paths II

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

You are playing a 2D game where your character is trapped within a 6 × 6 grid. Your character starts at (0 , 0) and can only move up and right. There is a power-up located at (2 , 3) . How many possible paths can