## Prompt:

Find the sum of all multinomial coefficients ( 7 b 1 , b 2 , b 3 , b 4 ) , where b 1 + · · · + b 4 = 7 and each b i ≥ 0 is an integer.

## Explanation:

Looking at an individual multinomial coefficient, it counts the number of ways to put 7 distinct balls into 4 distinct boxes with a certain amount in each box. Therefore, the sum over all such multinomial coefficients is just the number of ways to put 7 distinct balls into 4 distinct boxes, which can be done in 4 7 = 16384 ways.

## 81 Put-Call Arbitrage

Company :

## Prompt:

You have access to a stock with price S 0 = 10 , a European call on S with price C 0 = 4 , a European put on S with price P 0 = 3 , both at strike K = 4 , and bonds paying 1 at time T . Assume interest rates are 0 . Find the arbitrage. You are allowed to long or short assets.

Give the answer in the format of # Stock + # Call + # Put + # Bonds

## Explanation:

From put-call parity, we know that C -P = S -K must hold. We can see that C -P = 4 -3 = 1 and S -K = 10 -4 = 6 . We can see that 1 &lt; 6 , so there clearly is an arbitrage. When we see an inequality like this, we will long the undervalued assets and short the overvalued assets. Here, the undervalued assets are C -P and the overvalued assets are S -K . We long C -P , meaning that we will long 1 unit of C and short 1 unit of P . We will then short 1 unit of S and long 4 units of the bond. This is due to the fact that bonds pay 1 at expiry, so K = 4 corresponds to 4 units of the bond.

We then have # Stock + # Call + # Put + # Bonds = -1 + 1 -1 + 4 = 3

## 82 Ten Ten

Company : None