## 770 Meek Mill

Company : SIG, Citadel

## Prompt:

Meek Mill is performing at Spring Fair. The administration does not know where he is, and they estimate there is an 80% chance he is in Philadelphia and 20% chance he is in Baltimore. If he is in Baltimore, there is a 80% chance he will perform. If he is in Philadelphia, there is a 10% chance he will perform. Find the probability that if Meek Mill performs, he came from Philadelphia.

## Explanation:

Let P be the event Meek Mill performs, L be the event he is in Philadelphia, and B be the event he is in Baltimore. We want

$$\mathbb { P } [ L \, | \, P ] = \frac { \mathbb { P } [ P L ] } { \mathbb { P } [ L ] } = \frac { \mathbb { P } [ P \, | \, L ] \mathbb { P } [ L ] } { \mathbb { P } [ P \, | \, L ] \mathbb { P } [ L ] + \mathbb { P } [ P \, | \, B ] \mathbb { P } [ B ] } = \frac { 0 . 8 \cdot 0 . 1 } { 0 . 8 \cdot 0 . 1 + 0 . 2 \cdot 0 . 8 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

All of the quantities are derived from the question itself by interpreting them in our language of events.

## 771 Likely Targets III

Company : DE Shaw

## Prompt:

Three linear targets, say A,B, and C , of respective radii ε , 2 ε , and 3 ε , where ε &lt;&lt; 1 , are placed on an infinitely long line. The targets are centered at x A = -1 , x B = 3 , and x C = 5 . In other words, target A covers the interval [1 -ε , 1 + ε ] , target B covers the interval [3 -2 ε , 3 + 2 ε ] , and target C covers the interval [5 -3 ε , 5 + 3 ε ] . You have one dart to shoot at the line. Your goal is to maximize your probability of hitting one of the targets. You can choose where to center your throw on the line. If you select to center your dart at µ , the actual position your dart lands at is X ∼ N ( µ, 4) . Find the value of µ that maximizes your chances of hitting a target. If necessary, round your answer to the nearest hundredth.

## Explanation:

The key here is to note that since the targets are of extremely small radius, we can essentially treat them as points. The approximate probability we hit target A would be approximately f ( x A ) ε , where f ( x A ) is the probability density at point A . However, since B is also of small radius 2 ε , the probability we hit target B is approximately 2 f ( x B ) ε . Likewise, the probability we hit target C is approximately 3 f ( x C ) ε . Since the targets are disjoint, our goal is to maximize the weighted sum of the probability densities. Our probability density here is dependent on what µ we select. Therefore, as a function of µ , we need to maximize

$$f ( \mu ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 \sqrt { 2 \pi } } \left ( e ^ { - \frac { ( - 1 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } + 2 e ^ { - \frac { ( 3 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } + 3 e ^ { - \frac { ( 5 - \mu ) ^ { 2 } } { 8 } } \right )$$