## Explanation:

We can utilize the hockey stick identity several times here.

$$\text {utilize the hockey stick identity several times here.} \\ 1 2 \begin{pmatrix} 3 \\ 3 \end{pmatrix} + 1 1 \begin{pmatrix} 4 \\ 3 \end{pmatrix} + \cdots + \begin{pmatrix} 1 4 \\ 3 \end{pmatrix} & = \begin{pmatrix} \left ( 3 \right ) + \left ( 4 \right ) + \cdots + \left ( 1 3 \right ) \\ \left ( \left ( 3 \right ) + \left ( 4 \right ) + \cdots + \left ( 1 2 \right ) \right ) + \\ \vdots & + \end{pmatrix} \\ & = \begin{pmatrix} 3 \\ 3 \end{pmatrix} \\ & = \begin{pmatrix} 1 5 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} + \begin{pmatrix} 1 4 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} + \cdots + \begin{pmatrix} 5 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} + \begin{pmatrix} 4 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} .$$

Applying the hockey stick identity once again, we find

$$\begin{pmatrix} 1 5 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} + \begin{pmatrix} 1 4 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} + \cdots + \begin{pmatrix} 5 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} + \begin{pmatrix} 4 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix} 1 6 \\ 5 \end{pmatrix} = 4 3 6 8 .$$

## 243 Normal Activities

Company : AQR, Hudson River Trading, Five Rings, Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

Suppose that X and Y are independent standard normal random variables. Find P [ Y &gt; 4 X ] .

## Explanation:

As X and Y are mean 0 normal random variables, Y -4 X is also a mean 0 normal random variable. Therefore, P [ Y &gt; 4 X ] = P [ Y -4 X &gt; 0] is asking the probability that a normal random variable is greater than its mean. This is 1 2 by the symmetry of the normal distribution about its mean.

## 244 Hatching Eggs I

Company : None

## Prompt:

Amy has a chicken. The number of eggs laid by the chicken in a month follows a Poisson process with λ = 6 . The probability that an egg hatches is 0 . 3 . Eggs hatch independently of one another. Compute the expected number of hatched eggs.