Let abc be an integer divisible by 37. Then abc = 100 a +10 b + c by expanding out the digits. For the purposes of this solution, we will prove that if abc is divisible by 37 , then bca also is. The proof for cab is also very similar.

By expanding digits again, bca = 100 b +10 c -a . We have that

$$a b c - b c a = ( 1 0 0 a + 1 0 b + c ) - ( 1 0 0 b + 1 0 c + a ) = 9 9 a - 9 0 b - 9 c = - 9 ( - 1 1 a + 1 0 b + c )$$

Note that the form of the interior parenthesis is the same as it was originally but we have -11 a instead of 100 a . The difference between these is -9 · 111 a = -999 a . As 999 is divisible by 37 , we can subtract 999 a and get that abc -bca ≡ -9(100 a +10 b + c ) in mod 37 . However, abc = 100 a +10 b + c is divisible by 37 by assumption, so abc -bca ≡ 0 in mod 37 . As abc is divisible by 37 , this implies bca is also divisible by 37 .

With this in mind, the question is really just asking how many integers abc at most 1000 are divisible by 37 . In other words, how many non-negative integer values of k are there such that 37 k ≤ 1000 . We have that 999 is divisible by 37 from before and 999 = 37 · 27 . Therefore, k = 0 , 1 , . . . , 27 , all satisfy this, meaning there are 28 such values total.

## 11 Basketball Practice II

Company :

## Prompt:

Frank is shooting free throws. He makes his first free throw and misses his second free throw. For n ≥ 3 , the probability of making the n th free throw is equal to the proportion of free throws he made during his first n -1 attempts. How many free throws can Frank expect to make in 100 attempts?

## Explanation:

Let E n denote the expected number of free throws made after n total attempts. Then, E n = E n -1 n -1 + E n -1 . This is because there is a probability of E n -1 n -1 that the n -th free throw attempt is made, increasing the total by 1. Simplifying the expression, we find E n = n n -1 E n -1 . Note that E 3 = 3 2 . The recurrence relation can be rewritten in terms of n : E n = n 2 . So, for n = 100 , we have E 100 = 50 . This can also be seen by the first iteration of this question, as our total throw we make is uniform on { 1 , 2 , . . . , 99 } , which has mean 50 .

## 12 Increasing Uniform Chain II

Company : Hudson River Trading, Citadel, Akuna, JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Vatic Labs, Five Rings