## Prompt:

Consider a family of n children with n ≥ 2 . Let A be the event that the family has at least one child of each gender and B be the event that there is at most one girl in the family. Assume each child is equally likely to be born a boy or girl. Find the unique value of n such that A and B are independent.

## Explanation:

To demonstrate independence, we must have that P [ A ∩ B ] = P [ A ] P [ B ] . We first find P [ A ] and P [ B ] . For A , the probability that with n children there is at least one of each gender is easily calculated via the complement. The probability of all boys or all girls is just 2 2 n = 1 2 n -1 , so the probability of at least one child of each gender is P [ A ] = 1 -1 2 n -1 . For P [ B ] , we can either have 0 or 1 girls in the family of n , so there is 1 outcome where we have all boys (equivalently, 0 girls) and n outcomes where we have one girl (choose the birth location of the girl among the n ), so P [ B ] = n +1 2 n . For P [ A ∩ B ] , we need the probability of at most one girl and at least one boy and one girl. This is just the second case that went into calculating P [ B ] , as that was exactly 1 girl and at least 1 boy, so P [ A ∩ B ] = n 2 n .

Now, we must solve n 2 n = 2 n -1 -1 2 n -1 · n +1 2 n for n . Multiplication by 2 2 n -1 and rearranging yields that 2 n -1 = n +1 , which can be seen to be equal at n = 3 by testing a few values.

## 744 Distinct Biased Coins

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose we have a bag of distinct biased coins such that a randomly chosen coinâs probability of heads has density f ( t ) = 2 t on (0 , 1) . You choose a coin at random, toss it 6 times, and win if you get 6 heads. What is your probability of winning?

## Explanation:

The probability of winning given H = t is t 6 . Thus:

$$P ( w i n ) = \int _ { 0 } ^ { 1 } 2 t \times t ^ { 6 } d t = \frac { 1 } { 4 }$$

## 745 Double Data Trouble I

Company : Two Sigma