## Explanation:

If S represents the random sum of two dice, we note that P [ S = 2] + P [ S = 4] &lt; 1 and these events are disjoint, so we can say that the probability Jed obtains a sum of 4 before a sum of 2 is

$$\frac { \mathbb { P } [ S = 4 ] } { \mathbb { P } [ S = 4 ] + \mathbb { P } [ S = 2 ] }$$

There are 3 combinations yielding a sum of 4 , while there is only one combination yielding a sum of 2 , so the answer is 3 3 + 1 = 3 4 .

## 204 Prime Janitors

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Janitors at a large trading company come to work to see 100 open doors. These doors are labeled 1 to 100 . Throughout the day, janitors open/close doors based off of their number. The first janitor closes every door that's a multiple of 2 . Then the next janitor closes every door that's a multiple of 3 unless its currently closed, in which case he opens it back up. This will continue with by having the k th janitor open/close all door numbers that are a multiple of the k th positive prime integer. How many doors are open at the end of the day?

## Explanation:

Looking at this scenario a bit longer, youâll see that the opening/closing of doors are dependent on their factors. For example, door 2 starts opened and is closed by the first janitor. Door 3 is going to be closed by the second janitor. However, door 6 is closed by the first janitor, but reopened by the second janitor. In general, door k will be closed at the end of the day if it has an odd number of distinct prime factors. This is all of the integers that are prime integers themselves, powers of prime integers (both have 1 factor), or integers that have 3 distinct prime factors.

The primes that are at most 100 are: 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 11 , 13 , 17 , 19 , 23 , 29 , 31 , 37 , 41 , 43 , 47 , 53 , 59 , 61 , 67 , 71 , 73 , 79 , 83 , 89 , 97 ( 25 integers)

The powers of primes that are at most 100 are: 4 , 8 , 16 , 32 , 64 , 9 , 27 , 81 , 25 , 49 ( 10 integers)

Integers that are at most 100 with 3 prime factors are: