## Explanation:

Let A be an idempotent n × n matrix. Then the eigenvalues λ of A satisfy Ax = λ x for x = 0 ∈ R n . Multiplying by A on both sides, we get that A 2 x = λ ( Ax ) . However, we know that Ax = λ x and A 2 = A from above, so we put that in on the RHS to get Ax = λ ( λ x ) . However, we also know that the LHS is now λ x from the definition of eigenvalue, so our equation becomes λ x = λ 2 x . Equivalently, this means that λ ( λ -1) x = 0 . Since x = 0 , this means that λ = 0 , 1 . This means that 1 is the only possible eigenvalue that is non-zero.

/negationslash

Additionally, since A is said to be non-defective here, we know that sum of the algebraic and geometric multiplicities of A are the same. The sum of the algebraic multiplicities is 10 here, as A is 10 × 10 . N ( A ) refers to the eigenspace generated by λ = 0 , so the geometric multiplicity of λ = 0 is 4 by the question. This means that rank ( A ) = dim ( E λ =1 ) = 6 by rank-nullity theorem, so r = 6 . Our answer is therefore 1 2 +6 2 = 37 .

## 956 King Activity

Company : None

## Prompt:

The dealer is known to deal cards from a deck that is comprised of 10 standard card decks. This means that there are 40 of each rank of card and 520 total cards. The dealer plays a game where he shuffles all 10 decks together randomly, and then he starts turning over cards from the top of the deck. Once he turns over 5 kings, the game is over. You win the game if you are closest to how many cards total (including the final king) the dealer turns over before the game ends. How many cards would you guess to maximize your chances ? Note that this is different than the expected value.

## Explanation:

Let's compute P [ X = k ] for each k . This means that there are exactly 4 kings in the first k -1 cards, and the 5 th king comes on the k th card. There are ( k -1 4 ) ways to pick the spots of the 4 kings in the first k -1 spots. Then, there are P (40 , 5) ways to permute the kings to the 4 spots selected in the first k -1 spots and the k th spot. Then, there are P (480 , k -5) ways to pick k -5 of the other 480 cards that are not kings to go in the other k -5 spots before k that are not kings. We choose specifically non-kings so that we don't have another king before the k th spot (and hence the 5th king would not show up at the k th spot). There are obviously P (520 , k ) ways to permute k cards of the first 520 to the first k spots, so

$$\mathbb { P } [ X = k ] = \frac { \binom { k - 1 } { m } P ( 4 0 , 5 ) P ( 4 8 0 , k - 5 ) } { P ( 5 2 0 , k ) }$$

/negationslash