## 692 Intersecting Intervals

Company :

## Prompt:

Five intervals are each selected according to the following procedure: two points are sampled from U [0 , 1] , the larger becoming the right endpoint and the smaller becoming the left endpoint. What is the probability that there exists a point of intersection between all five intervals? The answer can be written as a simplified fraction of the form p q . Find p + q .

## Explanation:

Observe that it is the relative order of the selected points that is relevant. We can think of this as valid permutations of five A i and five B i , where A i and B i represent the left endpoint and right endpoint of the i th interval, respectively. Note that for a permutation to be valid, B i must come after A i . Of the 10! permutations, only 1 2 5 of these satisfy this requirement, as any pair A i , B i is in the correct order with probability 1 2 independent of the rest. For an intersection to exist, it is necessary and sufficient that all A i come before all B i . There are (5!) 2 permutations for which this holds, all of which are valid. Hence, our probability is

$$\frac { \ V a l d \ p e r m u t a t i o n s \, w i t h \, n o n \, \text {empy intersection} } { \ V a l d \ p e r m u t a t i o n s } = \frac { 2 ^ { 5 } \cdot ( 5 ! ) ^ { 2 } } { 1 0 ! } = \frac { 8 } { 6 3 }$$

Our desired answer is 8 + 63 = 71 .

## 693 Stranded at Sea

Company : None

## Prompt:

You are boating through the Mediterranean Sea when your motor breaks down. You remember learning from your divemaster that the probability of seeing at least one boat within a given hour is 73.7856

## Explanation:

Let p be the probability that you do not see a boat in 10 minutes. Then the probability of not seeing a boat within one hour is:

$$p ^ { 6 } = 1 - . 7 3 7 8 5 6 \Rightarrow p = 0 . 8$$

The probability that you will see a boat within the next 10 minutes is:

$$1 - p = 0 . 2$$