## 832 Ranged Max

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , X 3 , X 4 ∼ Unif (0 , 4) IID. Find the probability that the maximum of these 4 random variables is in the interval (2 , 3] .

## Explanation:

Let M = max { X 1 , X 2 , X 3 , X 4 } . We want P [2 &lt; M ≤ 3] = P [ M ≤ 3] -P [ M ≤ 2] . The CDF of M is easy to derive. { M ≤ x } means that { X 1 , X 2 , X 3 , X 4 ≤ x } . By independence,

$$\mathbb { P } [ M \leq x ] = \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } \leq x ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 2 } \leq x ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 3 } \leq x ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 4 } \leq x ] = ( \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } \leq x ] ) ^ { 4 } = \frac { x ^ { 4 } } { 4 ^ { 4 } }$$

$$T h e r e , \mathbb { P } [ 2 < M \leq 3 ] = \frac { 3 ^ { 4 } - 2 ^ { 4 } } { 4 ^ { 4 } } = \frac { 6 5 } { 2 5 6 }$$

## 833 Ship Meeting

Company : WorldQuant

## Prompt:

A pirate ship sets sail from island A to island B . At the same time, another pirate ship starts sailing from island B to island A . Assume each ship stays along the same path between the two islands. The pirate ships pass other at 1 : 00 PM and continue on their paths. One of them arrives at 5 : 00 PM, the other at 10 : 00 PM. At what time did the pirate ships set sail? Put your answer in military time, excluding the 0 if the hour is only one digit. For example, if the answer is 4 : 30 PM, answer 1630 .

## Explanation:

Let's call the two ships 1 and 2 in the order presented in the question. WLOG, let ship 1 arrive at 5 : 00 PM and ship 2 arrive at 10 : 00 PM. Clearly ship 2 is sailing at a slower speed than ship 1 , as it took longer from the meeting point and they left at the same time. Let v 1 and v 2 be the velocities of the two ships and d be the total distance between the islands. From the meeting point, the distance to island B is 4 v 1 , as it takes 4 hours to get to island B afterwards. Similarly, the distance to island A is 9 v 2 , as it takes 9 hours afterwards to get to island A . Therefore, d = 4 v 1 +9 v 2 .

However, the time travelled to get to that meeting point for ship 1 was 9 v 2 v 1 , as it travels at a rate of v 1 . Similarly, the time travelled to get to that meeting point for ship 2 was 4 v 1 v 2 . Since they left at the same