shows a red face twice when rolled twice. Then we have:

$$\mathbb { P } [ C | R _ { 2 } ] = \frac { \mathbb { P } [ R _ { 2 } | C ] \cdot \mathbb { P } [ C ] } { \mathbb { P } [ R _ { 2 } ] }$$

The probability we roll a red face on a corner cube is 3 6 . Thus the probability we roll a red face twice on a corner cube is ( 3 6 ) 2 = 1 4 . Thus P [ R 2 | C ] = 1 4 .

Since there are 8 total corner cubes out of a total of 27 , P [ C ] = 8 27 .

Finally, the probability we roll a red face twice is 1 4 · 8 27 from corner pieces, ( 1 3 ) 2 · 12 27 from edge pieces (two red faces), and ( 1 6 ) 2 · 6 27 from center side pieces (one red face).

Putting this all together we get:

$$\mathbb { P } [ C \, | \, R _ { 2 } ] = \frac { \mathbb { P } [ R _ { 2 } \, | \, C ] \cdot \mathbb { P } [ C ] } { \mathbb { P } [ R _ { 2 } ] } = \frac { \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot \frac { 8 } { 2 7 } } { \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot \frac { 8 } { 2 7 } + \frac { 1 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 1 2 } { 2 7 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 6 } \cdot \frac { 6 } { 2 7 } } = \frac { 4 } { 7 }$$

## 177 Checkmate

Company : DRW

## Prompt:

Andy is playing chess. In order to receive a prize, he must win at least two consecutive games out of three. Andy may either play Michael, then Aaron, then Michael (option 1), or he may play Aaron, then Michael, then Aaron (option 2). Aaron is better at chess than Michael. Which option, 1 or 2, should Andy pick in order to maximize his chances at receiving a prize?

## Explanation:

Let m denote the probability that Andy wins a game against Michael, and let a denote the probability that Andy wins a game against Aaron. Since Aaron is better than Michael, we assume a &lt; m ⇒ m -a &gt; 0 . In order to receive a prize, Andy can either win the first two games, or he can lose the first game and with the next two games. For option 1, the probability that Andy receives a prize can be written as

$$\mathbb { P } ( A n d y \, \text { receives prize} \, | \, \text {option} \, 1 ) = m \cdot a + ( 1 - m ) \cdot a \cdot m$$

And for option 2, we have

$$\mathbb { P } ( A n d y \, \text { receives prize} \, | \, \text {option} \, 2 ) = a \cdot m + ( 1 - a ) \cdot m \cdot a$$