## 69 Dice Products

Company :

## Prompt:

Take the product of 2 fair dice rolls.

What is the probability that it is divisible by 6?

## Explanation:

If one of the dice is 6, we know the product will always be divisible by 6. There are 11 rolls that involve the
number 6 (5 pairs with distinct numbers Ã 2 orderings + 1 way to roll double 6). The other way to make
a product divisible by 6 is to roll a number with factors of 2 and 3. Since we counted rolls with 6 already,
we leave those aside. So weâll need either a 2 or 4 on one die and a 3 on the other. In this case we have 2
possibilities for the ﬁrst die, 1 possibility for the second, and 2 different orderings. 2Ã1Ã2 = 4 combinations.
Adding this 4 with the previously calculated 11 and we have 15 rolls which result in a number divisible by 6.
There are 36 total possibilities of 2 rolls, each being the same probability of occurring, so the probability
will be 15/36 = 42.5%

## 70 Tennis Deuces II

Company : Maven Securities

## Prompt:

Andrew and Beth are playing a game of tennis. Tennis scoring works off these rules:

1. Scoring starts at 0-0 and when someone wins a point, their score goes up by 1 (thus either 1-0 or 0-1).

2. If a player gets 4 points before the other player, they win unless the score was 3-3 (deuce).

If the score was was 3-3, a player has to win by two points to win the game.

How many ways are there to get to a score of 4-4?

## Explanation:

From "Tennis Deuces I", we know there are 20 ways to get to 3-3. We know we have to get to 3-3 before
getting to 4-4 since any score of 4-x where x isn’t a number greater than or equal to 3 means the game ended