## Explanation:

We can impose an ordering with a ≤ b ≤ c ≤ d ≤ e . We then know that a + b = 5 and d + e = 22 , as the smallest two integers must add up to the smallest sum and the two largest integers must add up to the largest sum. Additionally, we have that every single of the a, b, c, d, and e appears in 4 of the 10 pairwise sums, as each integer is added up to every other integer but itself. Therefore, if we sum up all the values in the list, the result is 4 · ( a + b + c + d + e ) . Adding these integers up yields 5+11+11+13+13+14+16+19+22+22 = 146 , so 4 · ( a + b + c + d + e ) = 146 . However, we know a + b = 5 and d + e = 22 , so we can get that

$$4 \cdot ( 5 + c + 2 2 ) = 1 4 6 \iff c = 9 . 5$$

The trick now is to note that by the ordering we have, a + c must be the second smallest sum possible after a + b , so we have that a + c = 11 , meaning a = 1 . 5 . Since we know a + b = 5 , we get that b = 3 . 5 . By similar logic, we know that the second largest sum after d + e is c + e , so we know that 22 = c + e , meaning that e = 12 . 5 . Lastly, since d + e = 22 as well, we know d = c = 9 . 5 . Putting it all together, we obtained the solution

$$( a , b , c , d , e ) = ( 1 . 5 , 3 . 5 , 9 . 5 , 9 . 5 , 1 2 . 5 )$$

$$\text {There, } a ^ { 2 } + b ^ { 2 } + c ^ { 2 } + d ^ { 2 } + e ^ { 2 } = \frac { 3 ^ { 2 } + 7 ^ { 2 } + 1 9 ^ { 2 } + 1 9 ^ { 2 } + 2 5 ^ { 2 } } { 2 ^ { 2 } } = \frac { 1 4 0 5 } { 4 }$$

## 668 Bus Wait II

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

You are waiting for a bus to get to QuantGuide on time! The bus runs on a fixed schedule of appearing every 10 minutes. However, the driver, independently between appearances, may want to refill on gas. The driver refills on gas with 10% probability per trial, independently between trials. If the driver fills up on gas, 1 hour is added to his travel time. If you arrive at a uniformly random time throughout the day, what is the expected time until the next bus appears (in minutes)?

## Explanation:

Let G be the event of refilling on gas and T be the time it takes for the bus to arrive. We are going to condition on showing up on a turn when the bus refills for gas vs. when it doesn't. On average, 1 in every 10 trips will have a gas refill. In this case, the trip length is 70 minutes.

Therefore, in 9 of every 10 trips, the bus doesn't refill. Therefore, on average, in every 160 minutes, 70 of those will be when the bus is on a refill trip. Therefore, the probability of you appearing during a refill trip is 7 16 . The expected wait of that trip would be 1 2 · 70 = 35 . Then, with probability 9 16 the trip is regular