exact replication. When we want to look at the best upper-bound, we want to find a replicate that superreplicates the portfolio everywhere . In this case, the line y = 5 will give the best superreplication (from the given information). Since 5 is a constant, it is essentially risk-free cashflow and we need to discount this by the discount factor.

Hence, we get obtain 0 . 9 ∗ 5 = 4 . 5 .

## 860 Power Digits

Company : None

## Prompt:

## 861 Game Time

Company :

## Prompt:

m

is randomly selected from { 111 , 133 , 155 , 177 , 199 } . n is randomly selected from { 2004 , 2005 , . . . , 2023 } . What is the probability that m n has a 1 as the units digit?

## Explanation:

Only the units digit is relevant, so we can consider the first set as { 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 } instead. Note that, by Euler's theorem, x 4 ≡ 1 mod 10 if gcd( x, 10) = 1 . There are 5 numbers in { 2004 , 2005 , . . . , 2023 } that are divisible by 4 , and m may equal 1 , 3 , 7 , 9 . Additionally, 11 x ≡ 1 mod 10 for any positive integer x . We must therefore add 15 , since 5 values of n that are divisible by 4 have already been accounted for. Finally, we notice that 19 2 x = 361 x ∼ = 1 mod 10 for any positive integer 2 x , so we must add 5 values of n that are divisible by 2 but not by 4 to avoid overcounting. Our probability is therefore

$$\frac { 4 \cdot 5 + 1 5 + 5 } { 5 \cdot 2 0 } = \frac { 2 } { 5 }$$

38

people are looking to see a tennis match. The match costs $5 to enter. 19 of the people only have $5 bills, while the other 19 only have $10 bills. The cashier currently has no change. If the 38 people arrange themselves in line completely at random, find the probability that all of the people can successfully purchase a ticket without reordering in line.

## Explanation:

When a person with a $5 bill purchases a ticket, the cashier gains a $5 bill. However, when a person with a $10 bill purchases a ticket, the cashier loses a $5 bill in change. What we are looking for in this scenario is