## 843 Circular Birthdays

Company : Jane Street, SIG, DRW, WorldQuant, Akuna, Virtu Financial, IMC

## Prompt:

## 844 Uniform Equilibrium II

Company :

## Prompt:

Two players, say 1 and 2 , simultaneously pick real numbers in the interval [0 , 1] . The payoff of Player 1 (equal to the loss of Player 2 ) is the absolute distance between those numbers. There exists a non-pure Nash equilibrium. Under rational play from both players, find the expected payoff for Player 1 .

## Explanation:

The idea here is that Player 2 should go for the point that minimizes the maximum possible distance that Player 1 can be from the point. Having Player 2 always select 1 / 2 would limit Player 1 to earning at most 1 / 2 . For player 1 , they would want to select the values 0 or 1 only. If player 1 always selects 0 , for example, then player 2 can do better by just lowering his value. Therefore, he should run a mixed strategy with values 0 and 1 . If player 1 biases towards one of 0 or 1 , player 2 can do better on average by selecting a value closer to whichever one has higher probability. Therefore, player 1 should choose equally at random between 0 and 1 .

All of this yields an expected payout of 1 / 2 for player 1 , as no matter which of 0 or 1 player 1 selects, the payout is 1 / 2 .

7

people sit around a circular table uniformly at random. All of them have a distinct age. Find the probability that they sit down at the table in age order. Note that the ages can be increasing in either the clockwise or counter-clockwise directions.

## Explanation:

There are (7 -1)! = 6! = 720 distinct ways for the people to sit at the table with no restrictions. Only two of these seating arrangements have the people in age order: Namely, they are just when they increase CCW or CW. Therefore, our probability is

$$\frac { 2 } { 7 2 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 6 0 }$$