## Explanation:

By symmetry, we know that P[B] = P[C], as they are both flipping coins with the same heads probability. Therefore, as we want all three terms to be equal, they all should have probability $\frac 1 3$, as they sum to 1. In other words, we need to find a value p such that the probability both of them obtain their first heads at the same time is $\frac 1 3$.

The probability it takes exactly k flips for each of them would be $p(1-p)^{k-1}$, as they get k-1 tails and 1 head. Thus, the probability both get it in exactly k flips is $p^2 (1-p)^{2(k-1)}$. Summing this up from k = 1 to ∞ yields

$$\sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } p ^ { 2 } ( 1 - p ) ^ { 2 ( k - 1 ) } = p ^ { 2 } \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } \left ( ( 1 - p ) ^ { 2 } \right ) ^ { k - 1 } = \frac { p ^ { 2 } } { 1 - ( 1 - p ) ^ { 2 } }$$

Setting this expression above equal to $\frac 1 3$,

$$\frac { p ^ { 2 } } { 1 - ( 1 - p ) ^ { 2 } } = \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

The only solution in (0, 1) is $p = \frac 1 2$.

## 410 Poisoned Kegs I

Company : SIG, Goldman Sachs, Two Sigma, Five Rings, Jane Street

## Prompt:

A king has 8 kegs of liquor. 1 of the kegs is poisonous. If someone drinks any amount of liquor from the poisoned keg, they will die in exactly 1 month. 3 servants have volunteered to risk their lives for the king and test the kegs. What is the minimum number of months needed before the poisoned keg can be identified?

## Explanation:

Each patient can serve as a binary indicator for each keg. Hence, only 1 month is needed to determine the poisoned keg. As an example, suppose our kegs are labeled $K_1 , K_2 , . . . , K_8$. Then, we could have servant 1 try $K_1 , K_3 , K_5 , K_7$, servant 2 try $K_2 , K_3 , K_6 , K_7$, and servant 3 try $K_4 , K_5 , K_6 , K_7$. Each possible configuration of how the 3 servants die corresponds to one possible poisoned keg.

## 411 Russian Dolls

Company : IMC
