## Prompt:

You have an equally-weighted portfolio consisting of three assets with the following annual returns: Asset A has a 30

## Explanation:

Let A,B,C represent the returns of each asset in the portfolio. Then T = 1 3 ( A + B + C ) gives us the return of the portfolio. By linearity of expectation, 3 E [ T ] = E [ A ] + E [ B ] + E [ C ] . To calculate the expectation of each portfolio, we just have to sum up the returns weighted by their probabilities. We get that E [ A ] = 0 . 3 · 10+0 . 5 · 5+0 . 2 · ( -2) = 5 . 1 , E [ B ] = 0 . 4 · 12+0 . 3 · 7+0 . 3 · ( -4) = 5 . 7 , and E [ C ] = 0 . 2 · 18+0 . 5 · 3+0 . 3 · ( -1) = 4 . 8 . Therefore, E [ T ] = 5.2

## 880 Salary Covariance

Company : None

## Prompt:

In a population of male-female couples, male annual earnings, denoted M , have a mean of $ 60k per year and a standard deviation of $ 13k. Female annual earnings, denoted F , have a mean of $ 55k per year and a standard deviation of $ 11k. The correlation between male and female annual earnings is 0.85. What is the covariance between male and female annual earnings (in thousands of dollars squared)?

## Explanation:

We know that ρ xy = σ xy σ x σ y . Solving for σ xy , we find that the covariance between male and female annual earnings is:

$$\sigma _ { x y } = \rho _ { x y } \sigma _ { x } \sigma _ { y } = 0 . 8 5 \times 1 3 \times 1 1 = 1 2 1 . 5 5$$

## 881 Deriving Put-Call Parity I

Company :

## Prompt:

A forward contract is a derivative that pays S T -K at expiration, where K is the strike price. More specifically, you will get paid if S T &gt; K . If S T &lt; K , then you must pay the other party.

You have access to the underlying S , which has an initial price S 0 = 3 . You also have access to bonds, which pay 1 at timeT . The interest rates are 0 . 04 continuously compounded.

Find the time0 price of the forward contract with strike K = 2 and T = 1 . Round to 2 decimal points.