## Prompt:

At the new Avengers movie, people arrive according to a Poisson Process with parameter 1 /min. Each person's gender is independent of all others and has probability 2 3 of being male. Let N be the number of people that arrive until (and including) the first woman. Find the probability that none of the first N interarrival times are within 1 minute of each other. The answer is in the form a be -c for relatively prime integers a, b, c . Find abc

## Explanation:

The easiest approach here is to note that we should condition on N = n . We can see that N ∼ Geom ( 1 3 ) , as we are counting the number of people that arrive until a woman does, so P [ N = n ] = 2 n -1 3 n by plugging into the PMF. Then, given N = n , all of the first n people must arrive more than 1 minute apart from one another. The interarrival times of the Poisson process are Exp (1) distributed, so the probability any given interarrival time is at least 1 is e -1 . Therefore, for this to occur for all n people, our probability is e -n . By law of total probability, the probability of our event is

$$\sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 2 ^ { n - 1 } } { ( 3 e ) ^ { n } } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { \infty } \left ( \frac { 2 } { 3 e } \right ) ^ { n } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \frac { \frac { 2 } { 3 e } } { 1 - \frac { 2 } { 3 e } } = \frac { 1 } { 3 e - 2 }$$

Thus, abc = 1 · 2 · 3 = 6 .

## 270 Greedy Pirates

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

There are five pirates with distinct seniority. Each is rational in that they prioritize staying alive first and getting as much gold as possible second. The five pirates agree on the following method to divide 100 gold coins. The most senior pirate will propose a distribution of the coins. All pirates five pirates vote on whether or not to pass the proposition. If at least 50

## Explanation:

In the 2-pirate case, the most senior pirate, denoted pirate 2, will distribute all of the gold to himself since he will always get at least 50

## 271 Exponential Maximum Asymptotic

Company : None