## Explanation:

We can verify quickly that 100000 does not have digits that sum to 9 . Therefore, we are looking at numbers at most 5 digits. The trick to put everything on the same footing is that we append 0 s to the left of numbers less than 5 digits until they reach 5 digits. For example, 81 becomes 00081 and 144 becomes 00144 . Therefore, our integer is in the form x 1 x 2 x 3 x 4 x 5 , where each 0 ≤ x i ≤ 9 , as we can have less than 5 -digit integers. The number of integers whose digits sum to 9 is just the number of non-negative integer solutions to x 1 + x 2 + x 3 + x 4 + x 5 = 9 . This is a classic stars-and-bars problem and evaluates to ( 9 + 5 -1 5 -1 ) = ( 13 4 ) = 715 .

## 575 Paired Values II

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose we have the values 1 -6 in a bowl. We draw them without replacement, noting the order in which we selected them. We multiply the first two values together, the next two values together, and the last two values together. Lastly, we add the three products above. How many unique sums are possible?

## Explanation:

We don't prove this here, but each distinct pairing of the 6 integers creates a unique sum. There are 6! ways to permute the digits to the 6 spots. However, the first two, second two, and last two can be exchanged within each block to give the same sum, as order of multiplication doesn't matter, so we divide by 2 3 = 8 . As well, we can change around the order of the blocks and get the same sum, so there are 3! ways to arrange the blocks. Thus, the answer is 6! 3!2 3 = 15 .

## 576 Variance of Uniform

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

Let X ∼ Unif (0 , 1) . Find Var ( X ) .

## Explanation:

We can quickly see that the mean of X is 1 2 , as X is uniformly distributed over the interval (0 , 1) , so the mean is right in the center of the interval due to the uniform distribution of probability density. We use LOTUS to compute E [ X 2 ] . Namely, the PDF of X is f ( x ) = I (0 , 1) ( x ) , so

$$\mathbb { E } [ X ^ { 2 } ] = \int _ { \mathbb { R } } x ^ { 2 } I _ { ( 0 , 1 ) } ( x ) d x = \int _ { 0 } ^ { 1 } x ^ { 2 } d x = \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$