## Prompt:

Jenny has a fair 6 -sided die with numbers 1 -6 on the sides. Jenny continually rolls the die and keeps track of the outcomes in the order they appear. Jenny rolls until she sees both 4 and 6 . Find the probability Jenny observed exactly 2 5 s while rolling her die.

## Explanation:

We are going to break up the event based on when Jenny stops rolling. We know that she needs to roll at least 4 times, as she needs to observe both 2 5 s, as well as a 4 and a 6 .

Suppose that Jenny stops after n rolls. In the first n -1 rolls, she must have obtained exactly 2 5 s. There are ( n -1 2 ) ways to pick the locations of those two fives. Then, the last roll must either be a 4 or a 6 , and that value must not appear in the rolls beforehand. There are 2 options for the last roll. WLOG, let it be 6 . In the other n -3 rolls that come beforehand, they are able to be any value 1 -4 , but there must be at least one 4 in the sequence so that we have both 4 and 6 occur. There are 4 n -3 sequences total for the other n -3 rolls, of which we need to exclude the ones with no 4 s in them, which is 3 n -3 sequences. Therefore, there are 4 n -3 -3 n -3 sequences for the other rolls. Lastly, there are 6 n total sequences of length n . Therefore, the probability she stops after n ≥ 4 rolls is

$$\frac { 2 \cdot \left ( \begin{matrix} n - 1 \\ 2 \end{matrix} \right ) \cdot ( 4 ^ { n - 3 } - 3 ^ { n - 3 } ) } { 6 ^ { n } }$$

To find the total probability, we just sum up over n now. This is the sum

$$\sum _ { n = 4 } ^ { \infty } \frac { 2 \binom { n - 1 } { 2 } \cdot ( 4 ^ { n - 3 } - 3 ^ { n - 3 } ) } { 6 ^ { n } } = 2 \left [ \sum _ { n = 4 } ^ { \infty } \binom { n - 1 } { 3 - 1 } \frac { 1 } { 6 ^ { 3 } } \cdot \left ( \frac { 2 } { 3 } \right ) ^ { n - 3 } - \sum _ { n = 4 } ^ { \infty } \binom { n - 1 } { 3 - 1 } \frac { 1 } { 6 ^ { 3 } } \cdot \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { n - 3 } \right ]$$

The terms in the parenthesis look similar to Negative Binomial distributions with r = 3 and p = 1 / 3 and 1 / 2 , respectively However, they are slightly off, we need the constant terms 1 6 3 to be 1 3 3 and 1 2 3 , respectively. Therefore, we just need to multiply by 2 3 and 3 3 in each sum. However, the support of a Negative Binomial starts at r = 3 , and these start at r = 4 . To remedy this, it is easy to take the complement to evaluate each sum with the complement and evaluating the PMF at 3 for each. Doing all of this,

$$2 \left [ \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 3 } } \sum _ { n = 4 } ^ { \infty } \binom { n - 1 } { 3 - 1 } \frac { 1 } { 3 ^ { 3 } } \cdot \left ( \frac { 2 } { 3 } \right ) ^ { n - 3 } - \frac { 1 } { 2 7 } \cdot \sum _ { n = 4 } ^ { \infty } \binom { n - 1 } { 3 - 1 } \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 3 } } \cdot \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { n - 3 } \right ] = \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot \frac { 2 6 } { 2 7 } - \frac { 2 } { 2 7 } \cdot \frac { 7 } { 8 } = \frac { 1 9 } { 1 0 8 }$$

## 743 Independent Children

Company : None