## Explanation:

The best way to tackle this question is to look at the outcomes and make equations for the net amount given each case. For example, if Team Quant wins, your net value is 2 A -B -C , as you receive 2 A profit, and then lose the B you bet on Team Guide and the C you bet on a tie. Repeating this logic, you obtain the following equations:

$$If \, \text {Team} \, \text {Quant} \, \text {wins} \colon 2 A - B - C \\ \text {If} \, \text {Team} \, \text {Guide} \, \text {wins} \colon 3 B - A - C \\ \text {If} \, \text {tie} \colon 1 0 C - A - B \\ \text {the same irro aspective of the outcome} \, \text {we} \, \text {n}$$

Since we want our profit to be the same irrespective of the outcome, we need to make all these equations equal to each other. Solving these systems of equations, we get A = 44 , B = 33 , C = 12 as the smallest even bets you can make. To double check, when we plug these values into the three equations we made, we seem to profit 43 no matter the scenario. Thus, the answer is 43 .

## 581 Dollar Cent Switch II

Company :

## Prompt:

A man entered a store and spent half of the money in his pocket. When he left, he had just as many cents as he had dollars when he went in and half as many dollars as he had cents when he went in. His pocket was not empty upon arriving. How much money did he have on him when he entered?

## Explanation:

Let y be the number of cents that he had and x be the number of dollars he had upon entry. Upon arrival, he had x +0 . 01 y in his pocket. He spent half of his money and had x cents and y 2 dollars upon leaving. This means that 1 2 · ( x +0 . 01 y ) = y 2 +0 . 01 x . We can immediately note that y is even as he has exactly half as many cents.

There are two cases to consider here, which correspond to if x is even or odd. In the first case, we would get that x 2 = y 2 , meaning x = y . However, we would also get that 0 . 005 y = 0 . 01 x , meaning y = 2 x . The only possible case where these happen simultaneously is if x = y = 0 , but his pocket is not empty, so this can't be correct. Therefore, x must be odd. In this case, we have x -1 2 dollars and 0 . 50 + 0 . 005 y cents beforehand.

In this case, we would get that x -1 2 = y 2 , meaning y = x -1 . We would also get that 0 . 50 + 0 . 005 y = 0 . 01 x . Substituting in y = x -1 , this yields that 0 . 495 = 0 . 005 x , meaning x = 99 . Therefore y = 99 -1 = 98 , so he had 99 . 98 upon entering.