## 98 Stone Ripple

Company :

## Prompt:

A stone is thrown into a pond and sends out a circular ripple whose radius increases at a rate of 2 feet per second. After 10 seconds, how fast is the area of the ripple increasing (in square feet per second)? The answer is in the form k π for an integer k . Find k .

## Explanation:

We know that A ( r ) = π r 2 as a function of r and that r ′ = 2 . After 10 seconds, the radius of the circle is 2 · 10 = 20 feet. Lastly, we find that A ′ = 2 π rr ′ , so plugging in our values, we get that the rate of increase is 2 π (20)(2) = 80 π . Therefore, k = 80 .

## 99 Random Angle II

Company :

## Prompt:

A right triangle is being formed with legs labeled A and B . The random lengths of legs A and B are both IID Unif (0 , 1) RVs. Let θ be the angle (of random degree measure) that is opposite of side A . Find the probability θ &gt; π 3 . The answer is in the form a b √ c for integers a, b, c that are relatively prime. Find abc .

## Explanation:

Repeating the same process, we have that θ &gt; π 3 if and only if tan( θ ) &gt; √ 3 . Therefore, we want the probability that P [ A &gt; B √ 3] . Plotting this in the plane yields a triangle of side lengths 1 and 1 √ 3 , meaning that the area of the triangle is 1 2 √ 3 . We are allowed to take ratios of areas since they are uniform distributions. Thus, the area of the entire square is 1 , so the probability of this is just 1 2 √ 3 . Therefore, abc = 6 .

## 100 Compound Interest I

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

You start with $100 in your bank account today. You invest in a stock that yields 1% interest that is compounded daily. To the nearest dollar, how much will you have in your bank account after 100 days?