## Explanation:

Let H i be the indicator that the i th card dealt is a heart. Then T = H 1 + · · · + H 8 is the total number of hearts in the dealing of 8 cards. Using the variance of a sum formula,

$$Var ( T ) = \text {Var} ( H _ { 1 } + \cdots + H _ { 8 } ) = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 8 } \text {Var} ( H _ { i } ) + \sum _ { i \neq j } \text {Cov} ( H _ { i } , H _ { j } )$$

/negationslash

We know that Var ( H i ) = 1 4 · 3 4 = 3 16 , as it is an indicator. For Cov ( H i , H j ) , we have to evaluate E [ H i H j ] -E [ H i ] E [ H j ] .

We know the second term in this expression is just 1 4 2 because of the know value of the expectation of the indicators. Now, E [ H i H j ] = E [ H 1 H 2 ] by the exchangeability of the draws. This expectation is just the indicator that the first two cards drawn are hearts. This probability is 1 4 · 12 51 , as once we get our first hearts, there are 12 cards of 51 left, so E [ H i H j ] = 1 12 . Therefore,

4 · 51

$$C o v ( H _ { i } , H _ { j } ) = \frac { 1 } { 4 } \left ( \frac { 1 2 } { 5 1 } - \frac { 1 } { 4 } \right ) = - \frac { 1 } { 2 7 2 }$$

Plugging in, we have that Var ( T ) = 8 Var ( H i ) + 8(7) Cov ( H 1 , H 2 ) = 8 · 3 16 -56 272 = 22 17

## 938 Circular Charlie

Company : None

## Prompt:

There are 14 boys standing around in a circle, of which one of them is Charlie. 10 girls walk up and join the circle at random to form a larger circle. Each girl must be between 2 boys. If the girls arrange such that all ways of forming a larger circle are equally likely, find the probability Charlie is still standing between two boys.

## Explanation:

The 14 boys make 14 adjacencies for the girls to fill in. There are ( 14 10 ) ways for the girls to arrange since each girl must be between two boys. We know that Charlie must be between two boys, so the two spots adjacent to him must be empty. Therefore, for our event to occur, the girls must arrange themselves into the 12 spots not adjacent to Charlie, so there are ( 12 10 ) ways to do that. Therefore, our probability of interest is ( 12 10 ) 14 = 6 91 .

$$\frac { \binom { 1 0 } { 1 0 } } { \binom { 1 4 } { 1 0 } }$$