## Prompt:

You are given 100 pennies. You may arrange these pennies into however many stacks you want and put as many pennies into each stack as you would like. You are paid out the product of the number of pennies among all of the stacks. For example, if you make three stacks of sizes 10 , 20 , and 70 , your payout is 10 · 20 · 70 = 14000 . The optimal arrangement of the pennies will give you a payout of a · b c , where a and b are relatively prime. Find abc .

## Explanation:

We want to make the product as large as possible. Therefore, if we view the number of coins in each pile as a side length, we want to maximize our value as much as possible. A cube maximizes the volume here, which is the product of the side lengths, so we want to get to a cube or as close to it as possible. Let's start with 10 stacks of 10 , as 100 = 10 · 10 . If we divide each stack of 10 into two stacks of 5 , then we get a larger product, as each stack of 10 now contributes 5 · 5 = 25 to our product instead of 10 . Therefore, we now have 5 stacks of 20 . However, as 5 = 3 + 2 and 3 · 2 = 6 &gt; 5 , we should divide them up again. Now, we are going to try as many stacks of 3 as possible. This would yields 33 stacks of 3 and a lone penny. However, this is not optimal, as removing one of our stacks of 3 and putting it with the lone penny yields 4 · 3 32 &gt; 3 · 3 32 = 3 33 . As we can't divide 4 into anything more optimal, our solution is 4 · 3 32 , so the answer to the answer is 4 · 3 · 32 = 384 .

## 189 Perfect Seating I

Company : Jane Street, Optiver, WorldQuant

## Prompt:

Seven people with distinct ages randomly sit down at a circular table with seven seats. What is the probability that the people sit themselves in increasing order of age, irrespective of direction?

## Explanation:

Seat the youngest person at the table in any spot. There are 6! ways to arrange the remaining 6 people that have not been seated at the table. Of those arrangements, exactly 2 of them are in increasing order of age. Namely, these occur when they are increasing in age clockwise or counter-clockwise. Therefore, 2 of these 6! equally likely permutations are in increasing order of age, so our result is 2 6! = 1 360 .

## 190 Straddle Price

Company :

## Prompt:

What is the price of an at-the-money straddle with underlying S = 20 , time-until-expiry T = 0 . 36 , and volatility σ = 0 . 4 ? Round to 2 decimal points.