Now, we integrate both sides to get

$$e ^ { b T } R _ { T } - R _ { 0 } = \int _ { 0 } ^ { T } a e ^ { b s } d s + \int _ { 0 } ^ { T } \sigma e ^ { b s } d W _ { s }$$

We can substitute a couple of things. Namely, R 0 = r by the question. In addition, the Ito integral on the RHS is "sufficiently nice" so that it has 0 mean. Therefore,

$$e ^ { b T } \mathbb { E } [ R _ { T } ] - R _ { 0 } = \frac { a } { b } \left ( e ^ { b T } - 1 \right ) \\$$

After adding r and multiplying by e -bT on both sides, we get that E [ R T ] = re -bT + a b ( 1 -e -bT ) .

Evaluating this with the parameters in question, our expectation evaluates to e -1 +2 ( 1 -e -1 ) = 2 -e -1 . In this case, we have that 2 -1 -1 = 0 .

## 919 Median Uniform

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , X 3 ∼ Unif (0 , 3) IID. Find the probability that X (2) , the median of the three random variables, is between 1 and 2 .

## Explanation:

We can approach this with an intuitive perspective, as the random variables here are uniformly distributed. Split up the interval (0 , 3) into three subintervals (0 , 1] , (1 , 2] , and (2 , 3) . Each X i has equal chance of landing in each of the three subintervals. Label the random variables 1 -3 , based on which interval they end up in. Therefore, we want the probability the median is in 2 . Let's consider the different permutations that allow that to happen:

## 122 , 123 , 223 , 222

These are the different ways the values of the intervals can be assigned to the random variables. All that remains is to count the permutations. There are 3 ways to assign the values 122 to the three random variables (select the random variable that receives 1 in 3 ways, the other 2 receive 2 ). Similarly, there are 3! = 6 ways for 123 , 3 ways for 223 , and 1 way for 222 . Adding these all up, there are 3 + 6 + 3 + 1 = 13 permutations of the values. Then, there are 3 3 = 27 equally-likely ways to assign the values to the random variables in general. Therefore, the answer is 13 27 .