The mean of all of the cards valued at least k is 100 + k 2 , which would be our payout. Then, we need to factor in the discarding cost, so we would discard all the k -1 cards below value k . Therefore, f ( k ) = 100 + k 2 -( k -1) = 51 -k 2 for 1 ≤ k ≤ 100 . This is a decreasing function as k increases, so the optimal strategy is just to keep all of the cards! The expected payoff from this strategy is 51 -1 2 = 101 2 .

## 777 Mixing Wine

Company :

## Prompt:

There are two glasses: the first one is one-third full of wine, and the second one, which has the same capacity, is one-fourth full of wine. Both glasses are then filled with water, and their contents are combined in a jug. Subsequently, half of this mixture is poured back into one of the glasses. What proportion of the mixture in the glass consists of wine?

## Explanation:

Pretend the total capacity of each glass is 24. Then, there is 8 in glass A and 6 in glass B. When we combine contents into a jug, 14 of the 48 parts of the jug is wine. Hence, our answer is 7 24 .

## 778 Random Minimal Sum

Company : None

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , · · · ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. Consider the summation S = N ∑ i =1 X i 2 i , where N is the first index k where X k &lt; X k +1 . If no such index exists, then k = ∞ . Compute E [ S ] . The answer will be in the form ae b + c , where a and c are integers and b is a rational number in fully reduced form. Find a 2 + c 2 +4 b .

## Explanation:

We can write S = ∞ ∑ i =1 X i 2 i I N ≥ i , as this indicator evaluates to 0 if i &gt; N and 1 otherwise, so the summation is equivalent. Assuming valid interchange of expectation and infinite summation (this can be rigorously justified with Fubini-Tonelli Theorem), E [ S ] = ∞ ∑ i =1 1 2 i E [ X i I N ≥ i ] . What remains is to calculate that expectation.