R 1 , R 2 , . . . , R 8 are mutually exclusive events, meaning that we are free to use countable additivity. So, the probability of eating a red cherry last is

$$\text {cherry last is} \\ \mathbb { P } \left ( \bigcup _ { k = 1 } ^ { 8 } R _ { k } \right ) & = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { 8 } \mathbb { P } ( R _ { k } ) \\ & = \frac { 2 } { 7 } \left ( \frac { 7 } { 8 } \right ) ^ { 9 } + \frac { 2 } { 3 } \left ( 1 - \left ( \frac { 7 } { 8 } \right ) ^ { 9 } \right ) \\ & = \frac { 2 7 7 8 9 6 3 1 } { 5 0 3 3 1 6 4 8 }$$

## 118 Birthday Off

Company : Millennium Management, Squarepoint Capital

## Prompt:

Let b ( n ) be the expected number of distinct birthdays (number of days of the year where exactly one person has a birthday) among n people. There are two integer values of n that maximize b ( n ) . Find the sum of the two values.

## Explanation:

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . , X N be the indicators of the event that the i th person, 1 ≤ i ≤ N , has a distinct birthday distinct from the other N -1 people. Then T = X 1 + · · · + X N gives the total number of distinct birthdays in the year. Then b ( N ) = E [ T ] = N E [ X 1 ] by linearity of expectation and the fact that each person is equally likely to have a distinct birthday from everyone else.

E [ X 1 ] is the probability that person 1 has a distinct birthday from everyone else. Fix the birthday of person 1 . Then the other N -1 people must have a birthday on the other 364 days of the year, so the probability all of them do is ( 364 365 ) N -1 . Therefore,

$$b ( N ) = \mathbb { E } [ T ] = N \cdot \left ( \frac { 3 6 4 } { 3 6 5 } \right ) ^ { N - 1 }$$

.

The question implies that there are two integer values of n that yield the same value of b ( n ) . We can note that b ( n ) is increasing for a while and then decreasing. Therefore, the two values of n must be consecutive. Thus, we just need to find a value n ′ such that b ( n ′ ) = b ( n ′ +1) . Our answer would then be