## 456 Basic Die Game VII

Company : Chicago Trading Company

## Prompt:

A player rolls a standard fair 6 -sided die. If the player rolls a 6 , the game ends and the player receives no payout. Otherwise, the player may quit and receive $ k , where k is the upface of the previous roll. Otherwise, the player may roll again under the same rules. Assuming optimal play from the player, what is their expected payout?

## Explanation:

Intuitively, given that the player does not roll a 6 , the conditional expectation of their die roll is 3 . The sum of the rest of the faces of the die is 15 , which are distributed over 5 faces. Therefore, the player should keep any value at least 3 and re-roll any value below 3 . Let e 3 be the expected payout of this strategy. We have that

$$e _ { 3 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } \cdot e _ { 3 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot 4$$

This is since with probability 1 / 3 , the person rolls 1 or 2 , in which the game essentially restarts. With probability 1 / 2 , the person rolls 3 , 4 , or 5 , which has conditional expectation 4 . Solving for this, we get that e 3 = 3 , which is our optimal strategy. One can also show that if you re-roll anything below 4 , you get the same expected payout. This makes intuitive sense because of the fact that at 3 , you are indifferent to keeping or rolling again.

## 457 Needy Friends

Company :

## Prompt:

A rich man sets aside a fixed weekly allowance to distribute to his friends in need. He remarks that if there are 5 fewer people that need money next week, then each person will receive $2 more than this week. Unfortunately, there were 4 more people in the following week that needed money compared to this week and everyone received $1 less. How much money did each person receive in the present week (the week that had 4 less people apply)?

## Explanation:

Let x be the amount of money that the friend allocates and n be the number of people in the present week that needed money. Then x n was the payout for each of them. We can translate what the man said into math. The first statement says that

$$\frac { x } { n - 5 } = \frac { x } { n } + 2$$