## Prompt:

You are given a fair 6 -sided die and you roll it. You can either choose to keep your roll and receive the observed value in dollars. Alternatively, you are allowed to roll again, but if the sum of your two rolls is at least 7 , you pay the value equal to your first roll. If the sum of the two rolls is less than 7 , you receive the second observed value in dollars. Assuming optimal play, what is your expected payout?

## Explanation:

The first observation that can be made is that if we roll a 3 , 4 , 5 , or 6 , we should not consider rolling again. This is because we can only improve our stance by rolling a number larger, but the sum is guaranteed to go over 7 in any of these cases if our first roll is any of these numbers. Therefore, we should look at just rolling a 1 or 2 . If we roll a 1 , we either lose $1 with probability 1 (if we roll a 6 on the second roll).

6 18

6 Otherwise, we make 1 , 2 , . . . , 5 , each with probability 1 6 . Therefore our expected payout if we roll again is 1 6 · ( -1) + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 6 = 7 3 &gt; 1 . This implies we should roll again if we receive a 1 . If we roll a 2 , then with probability 1 3 we lose $2 (if we roll a 5 or 6). Otherwise, we receive 1 , 2 , 3 , or 4 with equal probability 1 6 . Therefore, the expected value upon rolling again is 1 3 · ( -2) + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 6 = 1 &lt; 2 . This implies we should not roll again and keep the two. As a result, we keep all values that aren't 1 , and otherwise, we roll a 1 again. This yields an expected value of 7 3 +2+3+4+5+6 = 67 .

## 721 Ramanujan's Run

Company : None

## Prompt:

Ramanujan is running late to teach his lecture. He must run a mile across Cambridge to the lecture hall within ten minutes in order to get to his students on time. Beginning with attempt n = 1 , he runs a distance of x n miles in t n minutes towards the lecture hall and repeats the process if he has (1) not yet arrived at the hall and (2) still has time to spare; the maximum value of n is 3. The values of x n are chosen independently and uniformly at random between 0 and 1 miles, while the values of t n are chosen independently and uniformly at random between 0 and 10 minutes. If Ramanujan runs out of time during his j -th attempt, then time magically stops, allowing him to finish traveling the remainder of the x j miles. If Ramanujan runs equal to or more than a mile total within the ten minutes, then he arrives at the hall on time. What is the probability that Ramanujan gets to the lecture hall on time?

## Explanation:

First, to simplify things, let's consider 10 minutes as 1 complete unit of time. We have:

$$i i d _ { 0 }$$

$$T _ { 1 } , T _ { 2 } , T _ { 3 } \stackrel { i d } { \sim } U$$

$$X _ { 1 } , X _ { 2 } , X _ { 3 } & \overset { i i d } { \sim } \text { Unif} ( [ 0 , 1 ] ) , \text { and } \\ T _ { 1 } , T _ { 2 } , T _ { 3 } & \overset { i i d } { \sim } \text { Unif} ( [ 0 , 1 ] ) .$$