## Explanation:

If you take when you have at least k for the first time, your expected face showing is 20 + k 2 . Additionally, as there are 21 -k values on the die at least k , the probability on any given roll of seeing at least k is 21 -k 20 . Therefore, the average number of rolls needed to see a value at least k is 20 21 -k . This means that you are able to claim on 100 -20 21 -k turns. Thus, your expected payout would be

$$p ( k ) = \frac { 2 0 + k } { 2 } \cdot \left ( 1 0 0 - \frac { 2 0 } { 2 1 - k } \right )$$

To find the maximum, one can treat p ( k ) as continuous and differentiate in k and then consider the two integers k is between as potential maximizers.

Doing this by product rule and simplifying, p ′ ( k ) = 10 ( k -21) 2 · (5 k 2 -210 k + 2164) . The zeros of this polynomial, by quadratic formula, are k ∗ = 105 ± √ 205 5 . The root where we add is larger than 20 , so k ∗ = 105 -√ 205 5 ≈ 18 . 137 is our optimizer. In an interview, one could notice that 14 2 &lt; 205 &lt; 15 2 , so that's how one could deduce 18 &lt; k ∗ &lt; 19 . Lastly, plugging in k = 18 and k = 19 yields that k = 18 yields the optimal value with 5320 3 .

## 935 Continuous Blackjack

Company : None

## Prompt:

Two players, a gambler and dealer, play continuous blackjack. The gambler goes first and generates a uniformly random number in (0 , 1) . At any time, they can choose to stop or play again. If they play again, they generate another independent uniform random number in (0 , 1) . If the sum of the generated numbers exceeds 1 , the gambler busts and the dealer wins. Otherwise, if the gambler stops at some value 0 ≤ a ≤ 1 , then the dealer begins generating independent uniform random numbers in (0 , 1) . The dealer keeps adding the values up until he either obtains a sum in the interval ( a, 1) (in which case the dealer wins) or obtains a sum larger than 1 (in which case the gambler wins).

The strategy of the gambler is going to be to stop when the sum is at least α and hit (generate another random number) if the sum is below α . The α that maximizes the probability of the gambler winning solves e α = e + α x + y α for integers x and y . e here is Euler's constant. Find x 2 + y 2 .