## Prompt:

Carter has come into contact with a bounty of gold. He takes it to an auction shop. The auction shop says that each person that bids will place a bid that is uniformly distributed between $500 and $1000 . They also state that they can recruit people to bid for a price of $5 per person. Assuming Carter selects the optimal number of people to bid on his gold, what is his expected payout?

## Explanation:

It is known that given X 1 , . . . , X n ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID and M n = max { X 1 , . . . , X n } , E [ M n ] = n n +1 = 1 -1 n +1 . This also extends now to Unif (500 , 1000) , as this is just a scaling and shifting of a Unif (0 , 1) . Namely, if X ∼ Unif (0 , 1) , 500 X +500 ∼ Unif (500 , 1000) . Therefore, if M ′ n is the maximum of n IID Unif (500 , 1000) random variables and M n is as above, E [ M ′ n ] = 500 E [ M n ] + 500 = 1000 -500 n +1 . The cost of obtaining n people is 5 n . Therefore, our profit, which we can denote as P n , is P n = M ′ n -5 n , so E [ P n ] = E [ M ′ n ] -5 n = 1000 -500 n +1 -5 n . We want to find n that maximizes this. Calling this function f ( n ) , we can treat n as continuous and find the value of n that maximizes it by taking the derivative and setting it equal to 0 .

This means f ′ ( n ) = 500 ( n +1) 2 -5 = 0 . Rearranging yields ( n +1) 2 = 100 , so as n must be positive, n = 9 bidders gives us the maximal expected profit. Plugging this in, E [ P 9 ] = 905 , which is our solution.

## 636 Egg Drop II

Company : Aquatic Capital

## Prompt:

You are holding three identical eggs in a really large building with n stories. If an egg is dropped at an elevation under story X , then the egg will survive; else, the egg breaks. It is known that the egg will break at some floor number 1 -n . What is the maximum value of n such that at most 9 drops are required to determine X in the worst-case scenario?

## Explanation:

In Egg Drop I, the strategy was to keep the worst case constant by scaling how high we jump at each interval based on how far up it is in our tower. In other words, we make larger jumps at lower floors in the tower so that we can test every floor afterwards in a given range. Namely, with at most d drops and 2 eggs, we could test d ( d +1) 2 floors completely. The key here is to note that when we drop one egg and it breaks, we really get reduced down to the two egg case. Therefore, instead of making jumps that decrease linearly (which is what we do in the two egg case), we are going to make jumps that decrease by the maximum increment of the two egg case. This is so that we are sufficiently able to search everything in a given range in the two egg case afterwards.