## Prompt:

You have 4 positive real numbers a, b, c, and d . When you multiply each pair of the numbers together, you get some element of the 6 element set { 9 , 10 , 12 , 27 , 30 , x } . Find x .

## Explanation:

Note that since a, b, c, and d don't necessarily have to be integers, prime factorization matching may not solve the question entirely. One thing to quickly notice is that the integers 9 and 10 , as well as 27 and 30 are in our set. Therefore, this implies two of the values, say a and b , satisfy, a = 9 10 b . One may now take the guess that a = 9 and b = 10 . However, this doesn't work, as one of the other integers would have to be c = 1 , and there would be too many missing values remaining. The next natural guess would be a = 9 2 and b = 5 , as you can obtain the values 9 and 10 from setting another integer c = 2 . Running with this, we see that ac = 9 and bc = 10 . To find d , the values left that we haven't matched yet are 12 , 27 , and 30 . However, we see that 12 = 2 · 6 , 27 = 9 2 · 6 , and 30 = 5 · 6 , which implies d = 6 . The last value should be ab = 9 2 · 5 = 45 2

## 544 Modified RNG

Company : None

## Prompt:

Jimmy picks a number uniformly at random from (0 , 1) . If Jimmy chooses x , then Jon picks a number from ( x, 1) uniformly at random. If Y represents the number Jon selects, in simplest form, find E [ Y ] Var ( Y ) .

## Explanation:

Setting this up as a conditional distributions question, let X be Jimmy's number. Then X ∼ Unif (0 , 1) and Y | X = x ∼ Unif ( x, 1) . We want to find E [ Y ] and Var ( Y ) . We start with E [ Y ] first. Since we know the conditional distribution of Y , we should apply Law of Total Expectation to get E [ Y ] = E [ E [ Y | X ]] . E [ Y | X ] = X +1 2 as Y | X ∼ Unif ( X, 1) . Thus, E [ Y ] = 1 2 ( E [ X ] + 1) = 3 4 since E [ X ] = 1 2 .

Now, for Var ( Y ) , we want to use Law of Total Variance, so Var ( Y ) = Var ( E [ Y | X ]) + E [ Var ( Y | X )] . We have E [ Y | X ] = X +1 2 from the previous part. Furthermore, we have that Var ( Y | X ) = (1 -X ) 2 12 by the known properties of uniform random variables. Therefore, Var ( Y ) = Var ( 1 + X 2 ) + 1 12 E [ (1 -X ) 2 ] .

Let's start with Var ( 1 + X 2 ) . We know constant shifts don't change the variance, so this can be reduced to Var ( X 2 ) . Constants inside variance need to be squared to move outside, so this becomes 1 4 Var ( X ) . It is