the expected number of moves to get back to the initial vertex as E 1 . Thus E 00 = E 1 +1 . Let E 2 be the expected number of moves from being in the state of 2 side lengths away from the starting vertex. Finally, let E 3 be the expected moves from being at the opposite vertex of the starting vertex. The equations for all these states are:

$$E _ { 1 } = \frac { 2 } { 3 } E _ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { 0 } +$$

$$E _ { 2 } = \frac { 2 } { 3 } E _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { 3 } +$$

$$E _ { 0 0 } & = E _ { 1 } + 1 \\ E _ { 1 } & = \frac { 2 } { 3 } E _ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { 0 } + 1 \\ E _ { 2 } & = \frac { 2 } { 3 } E _ { 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 3 } E _ { 3 } + 1 \\ E _ { 3 } & = E _ { 2 } + 1$$

We know that E 0 = 0 . Solving all of these equations, we get E 00 = 8 . Thus it takes 8 steps for the ant to start at one vertex of the cube and return to it.

## 168 10th Double

Company : DRW

## Prompt:

You flip a fair coin till you get two heads in a row. What is the probability that you stop on the 10 th toss?

## Explanation:

We know that our 9 th and 10 th toss have to be heads. This means that flips 1 through 8 canât have consecutive heads. Through deduction, we can start our sequence with either T or HT .

Let F n be the number of valid sequences from the first flip to the nth flip. We need to ensure our sequence does not end with heads, as we are placing HH right after. If the sequence ended with heads, there would be two consecutive heads before our desired length. We know F 1 is 1 , as only T does not end with H . F 2 = F 1 +1 = 2 , as we added the one for the HT outcome. F 3 = F 2 + F 1 = 3 because we can either add T to all of the sequences in F 2 or HT to all of the sequences in F 1 to make F 3 . We continue this recurrence and see that this sequence is the Fibonacci sequence.

F 4 = F 3 + F 2 = 5 , F 5 = 5 + 3 = 8 , F 6 = 8 + 5 = 13 , F 7 = 13 + 8 = 21 . Finally F 8 = 21 + 13 = 34 . Thus there are 34 possible ways for the first 8 tosses. All of these possibilities gets HH added onto the end to make 34 possible ways to make 10 toss sequences that fits our criteria. Each of these sequences has a ( 1 2 ) 10