## Explanation:

Let r be the Pearson Correlation Coefficient of X and Y . Then β x = r σ y σ x and β y = r σ x σ y . Therefore,

$$\frac { \beta _ { y } } { \beta _ { x } } = \frac { \sigma _ { x } ^ { 2 } } { \sigma _ { y } ^ { 2 } } \iff \beta _ { y } = \beta _ { x } \frac { \sigma _ { x } ^ { 2 } } { \sigma _ { y } ^ { 2 } } = 1 \cdot \frac { 1 0 } { 2 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

## 35 Colorful Socks I

Company : None

## Prompt:

10 pairs of socks, each with a distinct color, are in a drawer. You draw out 2 socks at random. Find the probability that you obtain a matching pair.

## Explanation:

Let the first sock be arbitrarily drawn. We can do this since there are the same amount of socks of each color in the drawer. The second sock must match the color of the first sock. Of the 19 remaining socks, only 1 is of the matching color, so our probability is 1 19 .

## 36 Slippery Ladder II

Company :

## Prompt:

A 50 -ft ladder is placed against a vertical wall of a large building. The base of the ladder is in oil, which makes the base slip and the tip of the ladder slide down the wall. The base of the ladder slips away from the wall at a constant rate of 4 feet per minute. Find the rate at which the angle between the ladder and ground is decreasing (in radians per minute) when the base of the ladder is 30 feet away from the wall.

## Explanation:

We can view the ladder as the hypotenuse of a triangle whose sites are the ground and the wall. Using Pythagorean Theorem, we find that

$$3 0 ^ { 2 } + y ^ { 2 } = 5 0 ^ { 2 } \iff y = 4 0$$

Therefore, the tip of the ladder is 40 feet above ground at that time. Using the result from Slippery Ladder I that y ′ = -3 at this instant, we can find the rate of change of the angle by using tan θ = y x Taking the