## Explanation:

Thinking of the two doors with money as aces, we want to find the expected number of doors that need to be opened, say b , until we find the first door with money. Our answer would then be 200 b , as the expected cost to find the first door with money is b · 200 b = 200 .

With the doors having money fixed, there are 5 other empty doors. The two doors with money divide up our total selection into 3 equally-sized regions in expectation. Therefore, there are, on average, 5 3 doors before the first door with money. We must add one in for the selection of the door with actual money. We get b = 8 3 , so

## 787 Non-Disjoint Subsets

Company :

## Prompt:

Let A and B be uniformly at random selected subsets of { 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 } . Find the probability that A and B are not disjoint.

## Explanation:

There are 2 5 = 32 ways to select each of A and B , as there are 2 5 subsets of a set of size 5 . Note that each of the 5 elements are equally-likely to belong to A ∩ B,A ∩ B c , A c ∩ B, and A c ∩ B c . We count by complement here. For the two sets to be disjoint, each of the elements must belong to A ∩ B c , A c ∩ B, or A c ∩ B c Thus, there are 3 options per element, so there are 3 5 ways to assign the elements so that the sets A and B are disjoint. Thus, there are 2 5 · 2 5 -3 5 = 781 ways to select A and B so that they are disjoint. There are 2 5 · 2 5 = 1024 total ways to select A and B , so the probability is 781 1024 .

## 788 Uniform Triangle

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X,Y,Z ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. Find the probability that a triangle of side lengths X,Y, and Z can be formed.

$$x = 2 0 0 \cdot \frac { 3 } { 8 } = 7 5$$