Putting this into math, we want to find a first cutoff point such that if the egg breaks at floor X on the first drop, we can examine the floors below it in 9 -1 = 8 trials. We can examine up to 8 · 9 2 = 36 fl oors in 8 trials by Egg Drop I, so we should drop our first egg at floor 37 . If it doesn't break, then we need to increment such that if it breaks on our next trial, we can examine the remaining space between 37 and the next floor in 9 -2 = 7 drops. We can explore up to 8 · 7 2 = 28 fl oors with 7 drops, so we should place our next egg at floor 66 such that we can explore floors 38 -65 ( 28 fl oors) in the remaining 7 drops.

Continuing this pattern, when we have k drops left, we are going to increment by k ( k +1) 2 +1 fl oors. This means that the next egg after would be placed at floor 66 + 21 + 1 = 88 , the egg after at 88 + 15 + 1 = 104 , and so on. The remaining floors to drop eggs at would be 115 , 122 , 126 , and 128 . We would be able to have a building of height up to n = 129 fl oors then, as if it doesn't break at 128 , it must break at 129 based on the information in the question. We can't explore any higher than 129 due to the fact that if it breaks at some point above 129 , we would have to search between 128 and the breaking point, which takes strictly more than one egg drop. Therefore, n = 129 is our answer.

## 637 Big or Small Deck?

Company : Citadel

## Prompt:

A standard deck is split up into two subdecks of 39 and 13 cards. You and a friend may choose one of the decks to draw cards from the top of one-by-one. The goal is to minimize the expected number of cards needed to be drawn to obtain your first ace. Whoever needs to draw fewer cards to see their first ace wins the round. You get to select first. Which deck do you select? Answer 13 if you should select the deck of 13 to draw from, 39 if you should select the deck of 39 to draw from, and -1 if it doesn't matter. Note that if a given deck has no aces, we consider the other deck faster and that we disregard ties i.e. neither person wins.

## Explanation:

The idea here is that the deck of size 13 has a significantly larger probability of having no aces in it. Conditional on there being an ace in the deck of 13 , the deck of 13 is faster on average. However, the probability of no ace is so much larger in the 13 than it is in the 39 that the deck of 39 is the better selection.

## 638 Double Data Trouble V

Company : Two Sigma