## Prompt:

Find the pair of positive integers ( a, b ) that minimizes a + b and satisfies a 2 + b 2 + ab = c 2 for an integer c . Find c 2 .

## Explanation:

Let and

Then then solve for b , obtaining b = m 2 -1

a b be the numbers in question. We have a 2 + ab + b 2 = ( a -mb ) 2 for some m . a (2 m +1) .

m can be any integer greater than 1 , and a is chosen to make b an integer. Set m = 2 , a = 3 and b = 5 . Plugging these values into the formula, we obtain 49 . However, a = 8 and b = 7 also works.

## 8 Observance Range

Company : None

## Prompt:

Find the smallest value of n such that if we generate n IID Unif (0 , 1) random variables, the probability that at least one of them lies in the interval (0 . 48 , 0 . 52) is at least 99% .

## Explanation:

Let p n be the probability in question when we have n IID Unif (0 , 1) random variables. We want to find the smallest n such that p n ≥ 0 . 99 . The event that at least one of the random variables is in this interval is the complement of the event that all n of the random variables are outside this interval. This latter probability is much easier to compute, as we have intersections of events now instead of unions.

Therefore, the probability of the complement is 1 -p n , so we want to find the smallest n such that 1 -p n ≤ 0 . 01 . Now, we want to find an expression for 1 -p n , the probability of the complement.

If the complement occurs, none of the n IID random variables are in (0 . 48 , 0 . 52) . This is saying P [ X 1 / ∈ (0 . 48 , 0 . 52) , . . . X n / ∈ (0 . 48 , 0 . 52)] = P [ X 1 / ∈ (0 . 48 , 0 . 52)] . . . P [ X n / ∈ (0 . 48 , 0 . 52)] by independence. As all of the random variables have identical distributions, we can evaluate one of the probabilities and raise it to the n th power, so this is ( P [ X 1 / ∈ (0 . 48 , 0 . 52)]) n . The probability X 1 is in (0 . 48 , 0 . 52) is just 0 . 04 1 = 0 . 04 . This