## Prompt:

The integers 1 through 9 are randomly placed into the 9 squares of a 3 x 3 grid such that each square has one integer and each integer is used once. What is the probability that the sum of each row and each column is odd?

## Explanation:

There are 5 odd and 4 even numbers, and for three numbers to sum to an odd number, either one or three of the numbers must be odd. Thus, one column must be all odd, and similarly one row must be all odd. Hence, the number of valid possibilities without regard to the ordering of the odd and even numbers is the number of row-column pairings, or 3 × 3 = 9 . The number of total combinations we could choose such that 5 of the 9 squares will contain an odd number is ( 9 5 ) . The probability that the sum of each row and each column is odd is:

$$\frac { 9 } { ( 9 ) } = \frac { 1 } { 1 4 }$$

## 890 Baby Boy

Company : SIG, DE Shaw

## Prompt:

A hospital nursery has 3 baby boys and an unknown number of baby girls. A mother just gave birth to a child of unknown gender and it is added to the nursery. The doctor then picks up a random child in the nursery and it is a baby boy. Assuming that births of boys and girls are equally likely, find the probability that the mother just gave birth to a boy.

## Explanation:

Let g be the number of girls in the nursery. Let C represent the event that the doctor chose a boy and B represent the event that the mother just had a boy. Then there are 4 + g total children in the nursery. We want P [ B | C ] . By Bayes' Theorem, this is P [ C | B ] P [ B ] P [ C ] . We can choose a boy with the mother just birthing a boy vs. the mother just birthing a girl. Thus, P [ C ] = P [ C | B ] P [ B ] + P [ C | B c ] P [ B c ] .

P [ C | B ] = 4 g +4 , as the new child being a boy means there are 4 boys and g girls. P [ C | B c ] = 3 g +4 , as the new child being a girl means there are 3 boys and g +1 girls. Plugging all of these in, we have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ B \, | \, C ] = \frac { \frac { 4 } { g + 4 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } } { \frac { 4 } { g + 4 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 3 } { g + 4 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } } = \frac { 4 } { 7 }$$