## Explanation:

We know that if we get 2 or more heads then we keep our result. Otherwise, we flip all of them again for $1 . The probability we re-flip is just the probability we obtain 0 or 1 heads from our first flipping process. As the number of heads in the four flips is X 1 ∼ Binom ( 4 , 1 2 ) distributed, we are looking for P [ X 1 = 0]+ P [ X 1 = 1] as our probability to flip again. Plugging in, this comes out to 5 16 . The expected number of heads obtained is 2 as E [ X 1 ] = 4 · 1 2 = 2 .

Therefore, if G is the expected payout of our game, by Law of Total Expectation

$$\mathbb { E } [ G ] = \mathbb { E } [ G \, | \, X _ { 1 } \leq 1 ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } \leq 1 ] + \mathbb { E } [ G \, | \, X _ { 1 } > 1 ] \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } > 1 ]$$

As we know that P [ X 1 ≤ 1] = 5 16 , P [ X 1 &gt; 1] = 1 -5 16 = 11 16 . Now, we need to find the expected payout in each case. If X 1 ≤ 1 , we re-flip, in which case the expected number of heads on the second flip is 2 . However, note that we pay $1 to flip again, so E [ G | X 1 ≤ 1] = 2 -1 = 1 .

If X 1 &gt; 1 , then we know that X 1 = 2 , 3 , or 4 . In this case, we are not flipping again, so we just keep the payout equal to the number of heads obtained. To find this, we need to find the conditional distribution of X 1 | X 1 &gt; 1 . Namely, by Bayes' Rule, we have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = 2 \, | \, X _ { 1 } > 1 ] = \frac { \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = 2 , X _ { 1 } > 1 ] } { \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } > 1 ] } = \frac { 6 } { 1 1 }$$

Similarly, we can show P [ X 1 = 3 | X 1 &gt; 1] = 4 11 and P [ X 1 = 4 | X 1 &gt; 1] = 1 11 . Therefore, E [ G | X 1 &gt; 1] = 2 · 6 11 + 3 · 4 11 + 4 · 1 11 = 28 11 . With all of these values, we substitute back in and find E [ G ] = 5 16 · 1 + 28 11 · 11 16 = 33 16 .

## 238 Lily Pads II

Company : None

## Prompt:

Lily pads double in area each day, and each lily pad is one square foot in area. How many days pass until a 20480-square foot pond that initially has 10 lily pads is covered in lily pads? Assume the region each lily pad covers is disjoint from the others.