## 76 Ancient Births

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose we have two people B and C . B died 129 years after C was born. At least one of B or C was alive for exactly 100 years. C died in 30 B.C. When was B born? If the answer is in BC, enter it as a negative number. For example, if the answer was 100 B.C., enter it as -100 .

## Explanation:

Since B died 129 years after C was born and at least one of B or C was alive for 100 years, this means there were 29 years where neither of them were alive. This means that there were 29 years after the death of C before B was born. Therefore, B was born in 1 B.C., so our answer is -1 .

## 77 Windless Mile

Company : SIG, Jane Street

## Prompt:

A man riding on a bike can travel 1 mile in 3 minutes if the wind blows in the direction he is moving and in 4 minutes if it is against him. How fast can the man travel 1 mile if there is no wind?

## Explanation:

Thinking about this as a rate, let x be the (in miles/min) that the wind blows and r be the rate (in miles/min) that the man bikes at. We know that r + x = 1 / 3 and r -x = 1 / 4 from the question above. Therefore, we get that r = 7 / 24 by solving this system, meaning it would take him 24 / 7 minutes to bike a mile windless.

## 78 Number Concatenate

Company : TGS Management

## Prompt:

Write out the decimal expansions of 2 1000 and 5 1000 adjacent to one another. Concatenate them to form a new number, say x . Find the amount of digits in x .

## Explanation:

Given an integer m , the number of digits in m is /floorleft log 10 ( m ) /floorright +1 . In this case, we have that our number of digits is

```
/floorleft 1000 log 10 (2) /floorright + /floorleft 1000 log 10 (5) /floorright +2
```