with 4 ones, and 1 possibility with 5 ones. Thus our answer becomes

$$3 \cdot \left ( \frac { 1 } { 6 } \right ) ^ { 3 } \cdot \left ( \frac { 5 } { 6 } \right ) ^ { 2 } + 4 \cdot \left ( \frac { 1 } { 6 } \right ) ^ { 4 } \cdot \left ( \frac { 5 } { 6 } \right ) + \left ( \frac { 1 } { 6 } \right ) ^ { 5 } = \frac { 1 } { 8 1 }$$

## 830 Busted 6 I

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose you play a game where you continually roll a die until you obtain either a 5 or a 6 . If you receive a 5 , then you cash out the sum of all of your previous rolls (excluding the 5 ). If you receive a 6 , then you receive no payout. You do not have the decision to cash out mid-game. What is your expected payout?

## Explanation:

Given that we receive either a 5 or a 6 , we roll 5 and 6 with equal probability 1 / 2 . In the case we roll a 6 , our payout is 0 . In the case it is a 5 , you cash out the sum of the previous rolls. If P is your payout, then

$$\mathbb { E } [ P ] = \mathbb { E } [ P \, | \, 6 ] \mathbb { P } [ 6 ] + \mathbb { E } [ P \, | \, 5 ] \mathbb { P } [ 5 ]$$

where 5 and 6 represent the events of rolling a 5 and 6 fi rst, respectively. The first term vanishes, as the conditional expectation is 0 . Therefore, E [ P ] = 1 2 · E [ P | 5] . On average, it takes 3 turns for the 5 to appear, since we are in the set with probability 1 / 3 per trial. This means that there are 2 roll on average before the 5 . The expected payout of each of those rolls is 2 . 5 , as we must have values 1 -4 in each of those first 2 trials. Furthermore, the outcomes are equally likely, so we have that E [ P | 5] = 2 · 2 . 5 = 5 . Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } [ P ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot 5 = \frac { 5 } { 2 }$$

## 831 Coin Pair V

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Four fair coins appear in front of you. You flip all four at once and observe the outcomes of the coins. After seeing the outcomes, you select any pair of coins to reconsider. One of the two coins can be turned over, while the other must be flipped again. If you already have 3 heads, you still must perform both actions. You iterate this process until you end up with all 4 coins being heads. A movement of a coin is when you either turn over or flip it. Find the expected number of coin movements needed to obtain 4 heads.