$$E [ X ] = \frac { 1 } { 4 } ( 3 ) + \frac { 3 } { 8 } ( 4 ) + \frac { 3 } { 8 } ( 5 ) = \frac { 3 3 } { 8 }$$

## 729 Sequence Terminator

Company : Two Sigma, Five Rings, SIG, Citadel

## Prompt:

A fair 6 -sided die is rolled repetitively, forming a sequence of values, under the following rules: If any even value is rolled, add it to the current sequence. If a 3 or 5 is rolled, discard the entire sequence and don't add the 3 or 5 to the start of the new sequence. If a 1 is rolled, add the 1 to the current sequence and end the game. Find the expected length of the sequence at the end of the game.

For example if the sequence of rolls is 34265241 , we would reset to an empty sequence at the first roll, reset to an empty sequence at the 5 , and our final sequence would be 241 , which is of length 3 .

## Explanation:

An incorrect solution goes as follows: We will have no 3 s or 5 s appearing before the first 1 , as they reset the sequence and are not added. Therefore, our sample space is really 1 , 2 , 4 , and 6 . On average, the 1 will appear after 4 throws of the die, so the answer is 4 .

This above solution is incorrect because it more implicitly assumes that we just "ignore" 3 s and 5 s that appear. Therefore, this is not the correct assumption we want to make. Instead, we can reframe this problem as follows: At some point, the last 3 or 5 will appear before the first 1 . As the die is memoryless (i.e. is not affected by what has already appeared), given that the first 1 appears before both the first 3 and first 5 , what is the expected number of rolls needed to obtain the 1 ?

Let's let N represent the number of rolls needed to see a 1 , and let B be the event that 1 occurs before both 3 and 5 . By symmetry, P [ B ] = 1 / 3 , as each is equally likely to appear first. We now condition on the value of the first roll. Let R i represent the event that we roll value i on the first roll. This would imply by Law of Total Expectation that

$$\mathbb { E } [ N \, | \, B ] = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 6 } \mathbb { E } [ N \, | \, R _ { i } , B ] \mathbb { P } [ R _ { i } \, | \, B ] \\$$

For i = 2 , 4 , 6 , we have that P [ R i | B ] = P [ B | R i ] P [ R i ] P [ B ] . Since the event that we roll i = 2 , 4 , 6 on the first roll doesn't affect the probability of appearance of 1 before 3 and 5 , we have that P [ B | R i ] = P [ B ] . Clearly