## Explanation:

We know that Y = M + S ( ρ Z 1 + √ 1 -ρ 2 Z 2 ) , where Z 1 and Z 2 are IID N (0 , 1) . This is the definition of the transform that yields a bivariate normal pair. We have then that Var ( Y ) = Var ( M + S ( ρ Z 1 + √ 1 -ρ 2 Z 2 ) = Var ( M ) + Var ( S ( ρ Z 1 + √ 1 -ρ 2 Z 2 )) . This is because the two terms are independent.

Var ( M ) = 1 by known formulas of the Exp (1) distribution. By the Law of Total Variance,

$$V a r ( S ( \rho Z _ { 1 } + \sqrt { 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } } Z _ { 2 } ) ) = \mathbb { E } [ V a r ( S ( \rho Z _ { 1 } + \sqrt { 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } } Z _ { 2 } ) \ | \ S ) ] + V a r ( \mathbb { E } [ S ( \rho Z _ { 1 } + \sqrt { 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } } Z _ { 2 } ) \ | \ S ] ) \\ \\ T ] = \dots \ ; \ \dots \ ; \ \rho ^ { 2 } Z _ { 2 } ) ) = \mathbb { E } [ V a r ( S ( \rho Z _ { 1 } + \sqrt { 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } } Z _ { 2 } ) \ | \ S ) ] + V a r ( \mathbb { E } [ S ( \rho Z _ { 1 } + \sqrt { 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } } Z _ { 2 } ) \ | \ S ] ) \\$$

The second term is just 0 because E [ S ( ρ Z 1 + √ 1 -ρ 2 Z 2 ) | S ] = S E [ ρ Z 1 + √ 1 -ρ 2 Z 2 ] = 0 by the fact Z 1 , Z 2 ∼ N (0 , 1) . The first term is E [ S 2 ] , as

$$V a r ( S ( \rho Z _ { 1 } + \sqrt { 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } } Z _ { 2 } ) \, | \, S ) = S ^ { 2 } ( V a r ( \rho Z _ { 1 } ) + V a r ( \sqrt { 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } } Z _ { 2 } ) ) = S ^ { 2 } \\ \mathbb { F } [ C ^ { 2 } ] = 0 . 1 - \rho ^ { 2 } Z _ { 1 } + \epsilon . \Psi ( V a r ( \rho Z _ { 1 } ) + V a r ( \Psi ) )$$

Thus, E [ S 2 ] = 2 by known formulas, so our answer is Var ( Y ) = 3 .

## 565 Rebuy Gambler

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob start with $15 and $10 , respectively. They bet $1 at a time on opposite outcomes of a fair coin. If Alice bankrupts, she has the ability to buy in again with $15 , while Bob has the stack he won. If she bankrupts again, she loses the game. Find the probability Bob loses the game.

## Explanation:

The easier quantity to compute is the probability that Alice loses the game, which is the complement here. For Alice to lose the game, she first needs to go bankrupt in the initially, and then bankrupt a second time. Using the Gambler's Ruin paradigm for equal-odds rounds, the probability she initially goes bankrupt is 10 25 = 2 5 . Afterwards, Bob would have $25 and Alice would have $15 upon rebuying. The probability Alice goes bankrupt here is 25 40 = 5 8 . Combining these, the probability Alice loses is

$$\frac { 2 } { 5 } \cdot \frac { 5 } { 8 } = \frac { 1 } { 4 }$$

Therefore, Bob loses with probability 3 4 . This makes sense, as this is the same result as if Alice had $30 bankroll initially and Bob had $10 initially. Alice essentially does have $30 , as she can rebuy for $15 midway.