## 633 Modified Deck Pair

Company : None

## Prompt:

Marissa has a deck of 40 cards: 4 1’s, 4 2’s, …, 4 10’s. A matching pair—2 cards with the same number—is removed from the deck without replacement. If Marissa randomly draws 2 more cards, what is the probability that she draws another matching pair?

## Explanation:

If a matching pair has already been removed, then there are 38 cards remaining. There are 9 sets of 4 identically-numbered cards remaining, and 1 set of 2 identically-numbered cards remaining. The desired probability is simply

\[
\frac{9\binom{4}{2} + 1}{\binom{38}{2}} = \frac{55}{703}.
\]

## 634 Double Data Trouble VI

Company : Two Sigma

## Prompt:

Suppose that you run linear regression on some dataset and obtain the coefficients \(\hat{y}_i = \hat{\beta}_0 + \hat{\beta}_1 x_i\). Let \(t_0\) be the \(t\)-statistic obtained when testing the null hypothesis \(H_0 : \beta_1 = 0\) against \(H_A : \beta_1 \ne 0\). Suppose that we double the values of each of our data points and then run linear regression again on this new data set. Let \(\hat{y}_i = \hat{\beta}_0' + \hat{\beta}_1' x_i\) be the new coefficients that are obtained. If \(t_1\) is the corresponding \(t\)-statistic obtained when testing the null hypothesis \(H_1 : \beta_1' = 0\) against \(H_A : \beta_1' \ne 0\), find \(\frac{t_1^2}{t_0^2}\). If it cannot be determined, enter \(-1\).

## Explanation:

From Double Data Trouble V, we know that the variance of our estimate is the same, so the standard error is also the same. As

\[
t_0 = \frac{\hat{\beta}_1}{s\left\{\hat{\beta}_1\right\}},
\]

we know that the estimate \(\hat{\beta}_1'\) is the same from Double Data Trouble I, and that the standard error in the denominator is the same for \(\hat{\beta}_1'\). Therefore, we get that \(t_1 = t_0\), meaning that \(t_1^2 = t_0^2\).

## 635 Optimal Bidders I

Company : SIG