## Prompt:

You roll a die. If it is 1 , 2 , or 3 , you obtain 1 and roll again. If you roll 4 or 5 , you cash out and the game ends. If the dice is 6 , you lose your gains and the game ends. How much would you pay to play this game?

## Explanation:

Initially, the question may look like a Markov chain, but it is not straight forward to solve it this way. For example, if you roll a 1 , 2 , or 3 , this doesn't necessarily increase your payoff by $1 . This is due to the fact that there is still a chance you will end the game with $0 . Instead, it is easier to solve this expectation directly using an infinite geometric series. Namely, the probability we receive $ k payout is to roll k values 1 -3 and then either a 4 or a 5 . The probability of this is 1 2 k · 1 3 . Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } ( X ) = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } k \cdot \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { k } \left ( \frac { 1 } { 3 } \right ) = \frac { 1 } { 3 } \mathbb { E } [ G ] = \frac { 2 } { 3 } \\$$

where we evaluate the sum by recognizing the remaining term is the PMF of a Geom (1 / 2) random variable, so we can say the sum is just E [ G ] for G ∼ Geom (1 / 2) .

## 75 Row Your Boat

Company : SIG, Belvedere Trading

## Prompt:

A group of friends travels in a canoe. They travel upstream from their campsite for three hours. After a while, they want to go back home. However, they travel five hours downstream and end up 32 miles downstream below their initial campsite. The next morning, they travel back up the river to their campsite and arrive at 7 : 00 PM. If the river flows downstream at a constant rate of 2 miles per hour and the friends row their canoe at a constant speed, what time did they leave to go back home the next morning? Enter your answer in military time. For example, if the time is 4 : 30 AM, then enter 430 as your answer. If the answer is 4 : 30 PM, enter 1630 as your answer.

## Explanation:

The first order of business to find the speed at which the friends travelled. Let x be this constant speed in miles per hour. When travelling upstream, they move at x -2 miles per hour because the stream opposes them. When travelling downstream, the move at x +2 miles per hour. Therefore, we have that 3( x -2) -5( x +2) = -32 , as they travel upstream for 3 hours and downstream for 5 hours and end up 26 miles below their initial spot. Solving for x here yields x = 8 . Therefore, as they travel upstream going back to the campsite the next morning, they will be travelling at 6 miles per hour going back up. Therefore, it takes the friends 32 6 = 16 3 hours to get back to their campsite. This is 5 hours and 20 minutes. This means they must have started at 1 : 40 PM. Therefore, our answer is 1340 .