## Explanation:

Interpreting the rotation matrix geometrically, we note that rotations do not change the length i.e. they are isometries. Therefore, the only way to have 0 ∈ R 3 after rotation is to start with 0 . This implies that N ( R α , β , γ ) = { 0 } and that null ( R α , β , γ ) = 0 . As rank ( R α , β , γ ) + null ( R α , β , γ ) = 3 by rank-nullity theorem, we can conclude that rank ( R α , β , γ ) = 3 , so our answer is 3 2 +0 2 = 9 .

## 842 Die Rank

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , . . . , X 5 be the upfaces of 5 independent rolls of a fair 6 -sided die with values 1 -6 on each side. Rank each of the following from largest to smallest in terms of value: a) E [ X 1 X 2 ] ; b) E [ X 2 1 ] ; c) E [ X 2 (3) ] , where X (3) is the median of the 5 die rolls.

Let a = 1 , b = 2 , and c = 3 . Answer with the integer corresponding to the concatenation of the order from largest to smallest. For example, if you believe c &gt; b &gt; a , answer with 321 .

## Explanation:

We can calculate E [ X 1 X 2 ] = E [ X 1 ] E [ X 2 ] = (3 . 5) 2 = 12 . 25 by direct calculation via independence of the rolls. Furthermore, we can calculate E [ X 2 1 ] = 1 2 +2 2 +3 2 +4 2 +5 2 +6 2 6 ≈ 15 . 17 , so we know that b &gt; a . We now need to find where c lies relative to these. It's worth just thinking about this intuitively, as the calculations are quite difficult.

By inspection, we note that the distribution here is skewed towards the middle (we would need 3 6 s or 3 1 s to get either extreme). Note that in the sum for E [ X 2 1 ] , we gain much more through the squared 6 than we lose in the squared 1 . This ranks it below E [ X 2 1 ] .

To compare to E [ X 1 X 2 ] , we note if either one of the dice is low, it reduces our product greatly. This reduction occurs with very high probability, whereas the median is more likely to reach at least a moderate value (say 3 or 4 ), so the median is skewed more right. Therefore, we get that b &gt; c &gt; a , corresponding to the answer 231 .