## Explanation:

We are going to solve this more generally for n consecutive heads. Let f k be the expected number flips of the coin needed to obtain n heads when you have 0 ≤ k ≤ n heads consecutively obtained already. Our boundary condition is that f n = 0 , as you already have all n heads obtained. We can see that f n -1 = 1 2 · 1 + 1 2 · (1 + f 0 ) = 1 + 1 2 f 0 , as with probability 1 / 2 , you reach n heads, and with probability 1 / 2 , you start over. Similarly, we have that

$$f _ { n - 2 } = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } f _ { n - 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } f _ { 0 } = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left ( 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } f _ { 0 } \right ) + \frac { 1 } { 2 } f _ { 0 } = \frac { 3 } { 2 } + \frac { 3 } { 4 } f _ { 0 }$$

By doing this again, we obtain

$$f _ { n - 3 } = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } f _ { n - 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } f _ { 0 } = 1 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left ( \frac { 3 } { 2 } + \frac { 3 } { 4 } f _ { 0 } \right ) + \frac { 1 } { 2 } f _ { 0 } = \frac { 7 } { 4 } + \frac { 7 } { 8 } f _ { 0 }$$

A pattern now arises. By recursively applying this process, we can see that

$$f _ { n - k } = \left ( 2 - \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { k - 1 } } \right ) + \left ( 1 - \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { k } } \right ) f _ { 0 }$$

By plugging in k = n , we obtain

$$f _ { 0 } = f _ { 0 } \left ( 1 - \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { n } } \right ) + 2 - \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { n - 1 } } \iff \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { n } } f _ { 0 } = 2 - \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { n - 1 } } \iff f _ { 0 } = 2 ^ { n + 1 } - 2$$

In particular, for n = 10 , our answer is 2 11 -2 = 2046 .

## 15 Consecutive Tails

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose a coin is flipped 10 times and the outcomes are recorded. Find the probability that any tails occur only in consecutive pairs. For example, with 4 fl ips, TTHH,TTTT, and HHHH are both valid, but HTHH and TTTH are not valid.

## Explanation:

Consider this problem with n coin flips. Let t n be the number of sequences of length n where this is satisfied. For any such valid sequence of length n , it must end with either H or TT . These subcases are both disjoint.

If our sequence ends with H , we can have any satisfactory sequence for the first n -1 fl ips. Therefore, there are t n -1 such sequences of flips satisfying this. If our sequence ends with TT , we can have any satisfactory