Our answer is:

Finally, 17 + 2 · 3 + 33 + 2 · 3 = 62 .

## 200 Covered Calls II

Company :

## Prompt:

You are entering a covered call position on $ TSLA. You buy 200 shares at $230 , sell 100 $240 Dec call @10 . 50 , and 100 $250 Dec call @9 . 50 (same expiry). What is your max profit for this strategy (assuming that your options will be exercised if they are above the strike at expiration)?

## Explanation:

In order to solve, we know that our profit is going to maximize right before our calls our exercised. No matter what we have (10 . 50 + 9 . 50) · 100 = $2000 in profit from selling both of our calls, now we just need to see how much extra our shares will add to that profit. Right up to $240 , we will maintain ownership of all 200 shares, with all 200 gaining $10 in value, for a total profit of 2000 + 200 · 10 = $4000 . We then need to check our next peak at $250 . This time we will maintain ownership of 100 shares, with these 100 gaining $20 in value each, for a total profit of 2000 + 100 · 20 = $4000 .

At both peaks, we have the same max profit, so pick either and our answer is $4000

## 201 Counting Nash Equillibria

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

A treasure chest is up for auction and there are 10 participants participating in the auction. The value of the treasure chest is determined as follows: behind a curtain 20 fair coins are independently flipped and for each head that shows, $1 is added to the chest (participants cannot see behind the curtian but are aware of the way the chest is valued).

Each person chooses a non-negative integer number of dollars to submit as a sealed bid. The chest goes to a uniformly random person who was among the highest bidders, in return for the amount bid and everyone else has their bid returned. Count how many pure Nash equilibria there are for this game. (You may assume

( 17 3 ) ( 33 3 )