## 427 Sum Exceedance III

Company : Vatic Labs, Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , · · · ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID and N 1 = min { n : X 1 + · · · + X n &gt; 1 } . Let S n = X 1 + · · · + X n . Compute E [ S N 1 ] . The answer will be in the form ce for a rational number c . Find c .

## Explanation:

By Sum Exceedance I, we know that the expected number of uniforms to exceed 1 is e . Namely, we have that S N 1 = N 1 X i gives the value of the sum after it exceeds 1 . As N 1 is a stopping time, we can say

$$\mathbb { E } [ S _ { N _ { 1 } } ] = \mathbb { E } [ N _ { 1 } ] \mathbb { E } [ X _ { i } ] = \frac { e } { 2 } . \text { Therefore, } c = \frac { 1 } { 2 } .$$

∑ i =1 .

## 428 Returning Books

Company : None

## Prompt:

Library patrons may either return their book at their local library or another library. If the book is returned to the local library, the system takes 2 hours to register this return action. If the book is returned to another library, the system takes 5 hours to register this return action. Suppose 70% of patrons return their books to their local library. What is variance in the number of hours the system takes to register a return action?

## Explanation:

Let X be the number of hours the system takes to register the return action, and let I be an indicator variable that denotes if the book is returned to another library; I has mean 0 . 3 and variance 0 . 3(1 -0 . 3) = 0 . 21 . We can rewrite X as X = 2+3 I , as it takes two hours if it's returned correctly (i.e. I = 0 ) and five if not. Thus, we can solve for V [ X ] :

$$V [ X ] = V [ 2 + 3 I ] = 9 \times V [ I ] = 1 . 8 9$$

## 429 Slippery Ladder I

Company :

## Prompt:

A 50 -ft ladder is placed against a vertical wall of a large building. The base of the ladder is in oil, which makes the base slip and the tip of the ladder slide down the wall. The base of the ladder slips away from the