We wish to find P ( R ) . By applying the law of total probability, we can rewrite this value as

$$\mathbb { P } ( R ) & = \mathbb { P } ( R \cap A ) + \mathbb { P } ( R \cap A ^ { c } ) \\ & = \mathbb { P } ( R | A ) \mathbb { P } ( A ) + \mathbb { P } ( R | B ) \mathbb { P } ( B ) .$$

If we are given that the cherry originates from bowl A , then the probability that it is red is simply 4 9 . Similarly, if we are given that the cherry originates from bowl B , then the probability that it is red is simply 6 9 = 2 3 . Putting it all together, we conclude

$$\mathbb { P } ( R ) & = \mathbb { P } ( R | A ) \mathbb { P } ( A ) + \mathbb { P } ( R | B ) \mathbb { P } ( B ) \\ & = \frac { 4 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 1 0 } + \frac { 6 } { 9 } \cdot \frac { 9 } { 1 0 } \\ & = \frac { 2 9 } { 4 5 }$$

## 490 Carded Pair

Company : Citadel, Five Rings

## Prompt:

Cards are dealt one-by-one from a standard deck of 52 cards without replacement. Find the expected number of cards that need to be dealt to observe either 2 kings OR 1 king and 1 ace?

## Explanation:

To observe either 2 kings or 1 king and 1 ace, we need to condition on which of king or ace appears first in the deck. If king appears first, then we need to find the number of cards until we observe either a king or an ace. If ace appears first, then we need to find the number of cards until we observe a king. For the first king/ace to be drawn, it is equally likely to be either of them. From here on out, K is king and A is ace.

First, we need to find the expected number of cards until the first K or A appears. We can use the First Ace methodology to use the dividers as K or A , yielding 8 dividers. These 8 dividers divide the other 52 -8 = 44 cards into 9 equally-sized regions in expectation, so there are 44 / 9 cards on average before the first K or A . Then, we need to add in 1 card for actually picking that K or A .

Now, with probability 1 / 2 , we selected K . In this case, we need to find the expected number of cards until either a K or A appears in the remaining deck. There are now 7 dividers ( 4 A and 3 K ) and 52 -44 / 9 -1 -7 = 352 / 9 cards left in the deck on average. Since there are 7 dividers, there are now 8 equally-sized regions in expectation, so the expected number of cards before observing the next K or A is 352 / 72 . Then, we must add in 1 for selecting the K or A , yielding a conditional expectation of 424 / 72 in this case.