## Explanation:

The answer will be 100(1 + 0 . 01) 100 by simple interest formula. Estimating that requires some skill. Noting the fact that (1 + 1 /n ) n ≈ e for large n , we know it is about 100 e ≈ 271 . However, we must adjust down a little bit, so one may guess it is $270 . 270 is indeed correct, though it is on the boundary between 270 and 271 .

## 101 Orthogonal Cosine

Company :

## Prompt:

Let x and y be vectors in R n with angle 75 between them. Let A be an orthogonal n × n matrix. Find the angle between Ax and Ay .

## Explanation:

We know that cos(75) = x · y || x |||| y || gives us a formula for the angle between two vectors x and y here. The cosine of the angle between Ax and Ay is

$$\frac { ( A x ) \cdot ( A y ) } { | | A x | | | | A y | | } \\ \\$$

Orthogonal matrices applies to vectors preserve length i.e. the linear transformation T ( x ) = Ax is an isometry. Therefore, || Ax || = || x || and || Ay || = || y || . Additionally, we can write ( Ax ) · ( Ay ) as ( Ax ) T ( Ay ) = x T A T Ay . However, as A is orthogonal, A T A = I n , so x T A T Ay = x T ( I n y ) = x T y = x · y Therefore, the cosine of the angle between Ax and Ay is the same as between x and y , so the answer is also 75 .

## 102 112 Appearance

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Suppose you roll a fair 6 -sided die until you either obtain a 2 for the first time or 2 consecutive 1 s. Find the expected number of rolls you perform.

## Explanation:

Let µ represent the mean number of rolled needed. We are going to apply law of total expectation here to compute µ based on our first roll. If our first roll is 2 , we are done. If our first roll is 1 , then we only need one more 1 until we are done. We will call the expected number of rolls to finish starting with a 1 in our sequence µ 1 . Otherwise, we just are at our current state again. Together, these imply that

$$\mu = \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot 1 + \frac { 1 } { 6 } \cdot ( 1 + \mu _ { 1 } ) + \frac { 2 } { 3 } \cdot ( 1 + \mu )$$