## 157 Modified Even Coins

Company : Jane Street, SIG, Akuna, Citadel

## Prompt:

n

coins are laid out in front of you. One of the coins is fair, while the other n -1 have probability 0 &lt; λ &lt; 1 of showing heads. If all n coins are flipped, find the probability of an even amount of heads.

## Explanation:

To obtain an even amount of heads, we have two options. If the fair coin shows H , then we must show an odd amount of heads on the other n -1 coins to obtain an even total. Alternatively, if the fair coin shows T , then we must show an even amount of heads on the other n -1 coins to obtain. If p is the probability of an even amount of heads on the other n -1 non-fair coins, then by Law of Total Probability, our probability of interest is 1 2 · p + 1 2 · (1 -p ) = 1 2 . This is because the complement of an even amount of heads is an odd amount, and these probabilities are weighted equally in the computation, so they cancel out.

## 158 Peaky Poisson

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X ∼ Poisson (13 . 4) . Find the largest value of k such that P [ X = k ] P [ X = k -1] ≥ 1 . Note that k must be in the support of X .

## Explanation:

We will solve this for general λ . Plugging in the Poisson PMF and taking the ratio yields that we want to find the largest k such that

$$\frac { \lambda ^ { k } e ^ { - \lambda } / k ! } { \lambda ^ { k - 1 } e ^ { - \lambda } / ( k - 1 ) ! } \geq 1$$

After cancellation, this yields λ k ≥ 1 , or that k ≤ λ . Since λ is not necessarily an integer, we have that /floorleft λ /floorright will be the maximum possible value in the support of X satisfying that inequality. In this case, /floorleft 13 . 4 /floorright = 13 .

## 159 Dice Order III

Company : None