This is since there would be 4 + n farmers if n farmers are sent and they work for 12 hours, so we would be 12(4 + n ) farmer hours. Solving this, we get that n ≥ 7 2 . This means that n = 4 , as n must be an integer.

To confirm this answer, we see that with 8 total farmers, they would work at a rate of 1 10 · 8 = 4 5 of a plot per hour, so it would take them 45 4 &lt; 12 hours to till 9 plots.

## 1022 Complementary Dice

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

Two players are playing a game by rolling a single standard die. Player 1 rolls first. If the top surface of the die shows 1 or 2 , then he wins. If not, then Player 2 will roll the die. If the top surface of the die shows 3 , 4 , 5 , or 6 , then he wins. Else, the game is continues until there is a winner. Let p 1 and p 2 represent the probabilities that the two players win, respectively. Find max { p 1 , p 2 } .

## Explanation:

Let's compute p 1 as in the question. With probability 1 / 3 , he rolls a winning value on the first roll. Otherwise, with probability 2 / 3 , he does not roll a winning value, and then player 2 needs to not roll a winning value on their first roll, which occurs with probability 1 / 3 . In that case, the probability player 1 wins is p 1 again. Therefore,

$$p _ { 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 } + \frac { 2 } { 9 } p _ { 1 } \iff p _ { 1 } = \frac { 3 } { 7 }$$

This means that p 2 = 1 -p 1 = 4 7 , so the answer is 4 7 .

## 1023 Smallest Probability

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that we want to simulate an event E with P [ E ] = p . We only have two rolls of a fair die and 1 flip of a fair coin. Find the smallest value of p for which we can simulate E .

## Explanation:

We can simulate an event of probability 1 72 by saying that E occurs if we roll (6 , 6) on the two dice and the coin appears heads. We can't partition our 36 element sample space for the dice any finer. Similarly, we can't partition our two element sample space for the coin any finer.