This is also known as put-call parity, where we can replicate a call-option with a forward ( S T -K ) and a put option at strike K . This is a very important concept in options theory and forms the basis of no arbitrage .

## 492 Probability of Unfair Coin I

Company : Two Sigma, WorldQuant, SIG, Akuna, Citadel, Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

Among 1000 coins, 999 are fair and 1 has heads on both sides. You randomly choose a coin and flip it 10 times. Miraculously, all 10 fl ips turns up heads. What is the probability that you chose the unfair coin?

## Explanation:

We can use Bayes' theorem to solve this problem. Let U be the probability that the coin is unfair, and H be the probability that the ten tosses turn up heads. Intuitively, P ( H | U ) = 1 and P ( A ) = 1 1000 as given in the problem. With these, we can solve for P ( U | H ) :

$$P ( U | H ) = \frac { P ( H | U ) P ( U ) } { P ( H ) } = \frac { P ( H | U ) P ( U ) } { P ( H | U ) P ( U ) + P ( H | U ^ { c } ) P ( U ^ { c } ) } = \frac { \frac { 1 } { 1 0 0 0 } \times 1 } { \frac { 1 } { 1 0 0 0 } \times 1 + \frac { 9 9 9 } { 1 0 0 0 } \times \frac { 1 } { 1 0 2 4 } } = \frac { 1 0 2 4 } { 2 0 2 3 } \approx 0 . 5$$

.

## 493 Dollar Draw

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

A bin consists of 4 $10 bills, 3 $20 bills, and 1 $100 bill. You select 7 bills out of this bin uniformly at random without replacement. Find the expected value of the sum of all the bills you select.

## Explanation:

The average value of each bill selected is 100 + 3 · 20 + 4 · 10 8 = 25 . Since draws are exchangeable, the expected payout of each draw is the exact same, so the expected total of the bills we select is 25 · 7 = 175 .

Alternatively, we can compute this by considering the bill we don't select, and then subtract this result from 200 . With probability 1 2 , we leave a $10 bill. With probability 3 8 , we leave a $20 bill. With probability