## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . be IID Exp (1) random variables and M n = max { X 1 , . . . , X n } . Define p n as P [ M n ≤ ln( n )] . Evaluate lim n →∞ p n . Your answer should be in the form b e , where b is some constant and e is Euler's constant. What is b ?

## Explanation:

Let us compute this probability directly. P [ M n ≤ ln( n )] = P [ max { X 1 , . . . , X n } ≤ ln( n )] by definition. Then, the maximum being ≤ ln( n ) means each individual random variable is at most ln( n ) . This means the above is just P [ X 1 ≤ ln( n ) , . . . , X n ≤ ln( n )] . By independence, we can split this up to obtain P [ X 1 ≤ ln( n )] . . . P [ X n ≤ ln( n )] . Since all of the random variables are identically distributed, we can just take one of them and raise it to the n th power, so this is P [ X 1 ≤ ln( n )] n .

$$& \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } \leq \ln ( n ) ] = 1 - e ^ { - \ln ( n ) } = 1 - \frac { 1 } { n } \text { by the CDF of the Exp(1) distribution. Therefore, } \mathbb { P } [ M _ { n } \leq \ln ( n ) ] = \\ & \left ( 1 - \frac { 1 } { n } \right ) ^ { n } . \text { Recall from Calculus that for any real x, } \lim _ { n \to \infty } \left ( 1 + \frac { x } { n } \right ) ^ { n } = e ^ { x } . \text { This is just the exponential limit} \\ & \text {with } x = - 1 , \text { so our limit is } e ^ { - 1 } \equiv \frac { 1 } { e } . \text { Therefore, } b = 1 .$$

## 272 Segment Traversal

Company : Hudson River Trading, Virtu Financial

## Prompt:

You select a uniformly random starting point on the circumference of a circle, say P 1 . Then, you select another uniformly random point on the circumference, P 2 , and draw a line segment between P 1 and P 2 . You then continue to select uniformly random points on the circumference of the circle, say P 3 , . . . , P n , and draw a line segment between P i and P i +1 for each 1 ≤ i ≤ n -1 . Lastly, you draw a line segment from P n back to P 1 . Find the expected number of intersections between line segments on the interior of the circle as a function of n . Evaluate this for n = 12 .

## Explanation:

In total, there are n line segments when the process is done. This means that there are ( n 2 ) pairs of line segments that could possibly intersect. However, not all of these have equal probabilities of intersecting. In particular, each of the n points selected represents the intersection of two line segments on the circumference of the circle, meaning that those two segments can't intersect inside the circle. Therefore, we must subtract n possible pairs of line segments that could intersect, as those n pairs can't intersect each other inside the circle. This yields ( n 2 ) -n possible pairs of line segments that can intersection. By linearity of expectation and