## 696 Triangular Selection II

Company :

## Prompt:

There are 6 points in some space, no three of which lie on the same line. Matt and Aaron each uniformly at random select 3 distinct points each in the space and draw a triangle with those three points as vertices. Note that while Matt can't choose the same point twice among his selections, Aaron and Matt can select the same point. What is the probability they share at least one vertex in common?

## Explanation:

The complement of this event is that Matt and Aaron select disjoint triangles. Let Aaron's triangle be fixed arbitrarily. This consists of 3 of the 6 points in our space. Of the ( 6 3 ) = 20 ways that Matt can select his triangle, exactly 1 has no vertices in common with Aaron's triangle. Namely, he has to pick the 3 vertices Aaron did not pick. Therefore, the answer is just 1 -1 20 = 19 20 .

## 697 Colosseum Fight II

Company :

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob are in Roman times and have 4 gladiators each. The strengths of each of Alice's gladiators are 1 -4 , while Bob's gladiators have strengths 4 , 5 , 9 , and 12 . The tournament is going to consist of Alice and Bob picking gladiators to fight against one another one-at-a-time. Then, the two gladiators fight to the death with no ties. If the two gladiators are of strengths x and y , respectively, then the probability that the gladiator with strength x wins is x x + y . The winning gladiator will maintain the same strength after the round is over.

/negationslash

Alice is going to pick first for each fight among her remaining gladiators. Afterwards, Bob can select his gladiator (assuming he has one) to go against the one Alice selected. The winner of the tournament is the person who has at least one gladiator left at the end. Does Bob have an optimal strategy S ∗ such that the probability Bob wins the tournament with strategy S ∗ is strictly larger than with any other strategy S = S ∗ ? If so, answer 1 . If not, answer 0 .

## Explanation:

In this game, instead of giving the strength x gladiator x balls, we will give him a light bulb whose lifetime is Exp (1 /x ) distributed. We select this parameter so the mean is x . When two gladiators fight, we turn on their light bulbs, and the one goes out first is the loser. Once a gladiator wins, we immediately turn off his