## 722 Placing Dots

Company : None

## Prompt:

You place three dots along four edges of a square at random. What is the probability that the dots lie on distinct edges?

## Explanation:

The first dot will always be placed on a distinct edge. The second dot has a 3 4 chance of being placed on a distinct edge. The third dot has a 2 4 chance of being placed on a distinct edge. Thus, the probability that the three dots all lie on distinct edges is:

$$1 \times \frac { 3 } { 4 } \times \frac { 2 } { 4 } = \frac { 3 } { 8 }$$

## 723 Sum Exceedance I

Company : JP Morgan, DE Shaw, Akuna, Goldman Sachs, Vatic Labs, Hudson River Trading

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , . . . be IID Unif (0 , 1) random variables and let N = min { n : X 1 + · · · + X n &gt; ln(2) } . Find E [ N ] .

## Explanation:

We are going to generalize this question. For 0 &lt; x &lt; 1 (this restriction will be explained later), let m ( x ) = E [ N x ] , where N x = min { n : X 1 + · · · + X n &gt; x } . By the Law of Total Expectation, E [ N x ] = E [ E [ N x | X 1 ]] . If X 1 &gt; x , then it takes 1 trial and this occurs with probability 1 -x . If X 1 ≤ x , then we have a remaining sum of x -X 1 remaining to exceed. Therefore, our expectation 1 + m ( x -X 1 ) in this case. We need to integrate over all values of X 1 from 0 to x by Law of Total Expectation. The expression that results is

$$m ( x ) = ( 1 - x ) \cdot 1 + \int _ { 0 } ^ { x } ( 1 + m ( x - y ) ) d y = 1 + \int _ { 0 } ^ { x } m ( x - y ) d y$$

We can make the u -substitution u = x -y and obtain the new integral equation m ( x ) = 1 + ∫ x 0 m ( u ) du . Assuming differentiability of m ( x ) , take the derivative on both sides and apply the fundamental theorem of calculus to obtain m ′ ( x ) = m ( x ) . The classic solution to this equation is m ( x ) = Ce x . We now need an initial condition to obtain a particular solution. A reasonable initial condition is that m (0) = 1 , as with probability 1 , our first random variable is larger than 0 , so it takes exactly 1 random variable to exceed 0 . This initial condition implies C = 1 and m ( x ) = e x .