Case 3: There are 4 total integers in the subset. In other words, there are 2 UC tiles, 1 UCC tile, and 4 U tiles. There are ( 7 2 , 1 , 4 ) = 105 ways to order these 7 tiles.

Case 4: There are 3 total integers in the subset. In other words, there is 1 UC tile, 1 UCC tile, and 6 U tiles. There are ( 8 1 , 1 , 6 ) = 56 ways to order these 8 tiles.

Case 5: There are 2 total integers in the subset. In other words, is 1 UCC tile, and 8 U tiles. There are ( 9 8 ) = 9 ways to order these 9 tiles.

Adding it all up, we conclude there are 5 + 60 + 105 + 56 + 9 = 235 possible subsets that contain exactly 1 pair of consecutive integers.

## 27 Die Multiple II

Company :

## Prompt:

You roll a fair 6 -sided die until the sum of all upfaces is a multiple of 6 . Find the expected number of rolls performed.

## Explanation:

Let S k = X 1 + · · · + X k represent the sum of the first k die rolls, with X i being the value of the i th die roll. On each roll, regardless of what was rolled prior, there is a 1 6 probability that the sum will be divisible by 6 . This is because exactly 1 of the 6 values on each roll makes the sum divisible by 6 , no matter what the current sum is. Therefore, the number of rolls needed is Geom ( 1 6 ) , which has mean 6 . Therefore, our answer is 6 .

## 28 Thick Coin

Company :

## Prompt:

Let the radius of a penny be 1 . Assume that the thickness of the penny is non-negligible so that a flipped penny can land on its side. Find the thickness of the penny that, when flipped, has a 1 3 chance of landing on its side. The answer is in the form 1 √ k for an integer k . Find k .