## Explanation:

Let Z ∼ N (0 , 1) . Then we can say that X = e Z . We want to find E [ X ] = E [ e Z ] = M Z (1) , where M Z ( θ ) is the MGF of Z . The MGF of Z ∼ N (0 , 1) is M Z ( θ ) = e 1 2 θ 2 . Therefore, M Z (1) = e 1 2 , so our answer is ln( e 1 2 ) = 1 2 .

## 525 Coin-Die Oddity

Company :

## Prompt:

Abdelrahman flips 2 fair coins. For each head that results, Abdelrahman rolls one fair 6 -sided die. Find the probability that the sum of all the upfaces is odd.

## Explanation:

The number of dice rolled is dependent upon the number of heads that we see. Therefore, we should condition on the number of heads obtained. We see 0 , 1 , and 2 heads with respective probabilities 1 4 , 1 2 , and 1 4 .

If we obtain no heads, then the sum is 0 , which is even. Therefore, our probability in this case is 0 . If we obtain 1 head, then 3 of the 6 equally-likely values are odd, so the probability is 1 2 in this case. If we obtain 2 heads, then we roll 2 dice. The possible values are 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , and 11 . The number of combinations resulting in those sums is 2 + 4 + 6 + 4 + 2 = 18 . There are 6 2 = 36 total outcomes, so the probability of an odd value in this case is 1 2 as well. Therefore, by the Law of Total Probability, the probability of an odd value is

$$\frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot 0 + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 4 } \cdot \frac { 1 } { 2 } = \frac { 3 } { 8 }$$

## 526 Dollar Break

Company : None

## Prompt:

What is the maximum amount of money in coins you can have in your pocket and not be able to make change for a dollar? The coin denominations in the USA are pennies ( 0 . 01 dollars), nickels ( 0 . 05 dollars), dimes ( 0 . 10 dollars), and quarters ( 0 . 25 dollars).

## Explanation:

The most clear choice is that we should have 4 pennies. This is so that we can't create any other coin using these 4 pennies. Next, let's look at quarters. We only want to have 1 quarter because if we have more than