## Prompt:

What is the value of a three-month at-the-money call option on a $100 stock when the implied vol is 40 ? Assume that r = 0 and that the stock follows GBM dynamics. Do not use a calculator.

## Explanation:

We can use the approximation to price both puts and calls when interest rates are low and the option is at-the-money (put-call parity).

$$c ( t ) \approx \sigma S \sqrt { \frac { T - t } { 2 \pi } }$$

We can use the approximation of 1 √ 0 . 4

This then gives us c ( t ) . 4 100 0 . 4 0 . 25 = 8

Note, we need to divide implied volatility by 100 as in Black-Scholes, it's reported as a percentage.

2 π ≈ ≈ · · · √

## 275 Zero Volatility Returns

Company :

## Prompt:

Suppose that dS t = µS t dt + σ S t √ dt with σ = 0 and µ = 1 . Find S 2 S 0 . The answer is in the form e a for some a . Find a .

## Explanation:

With σ = 0 , dS t S t is now non-random. Namely, it is just µdt . Therefore, the ratio here grows at a constant rate µ = 1 that is non-random. Therefore, by approaching this as a standard differential equation and integrating on (0 , 2) , ln( S 2 /S 0 ) = 2 , so S 2 /S 0 = e 2 , meaning a = 2 .

## 276 Coin Toss Game I

Company :

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob are playing a game where they toss a fair coin. The first person to flip both a heads and a tails (not necessarily in that order) wins the game. Alice starts and then gives the coin to Bob and the cycle repeats until one of them has flipped both a heads and a tails. What is the probability that Alice wins this game?