## 920 Bold Subsets

Company :

## Prompt:

Erica intends to construct a subset T of S = { I, J, K, L, M, N } , but if she is unsure about including an element x of S in T, she will write x in bold and include it in T. For example, { I, J } , { J, K , L } , and { I , J , M , N } are valid examples of T, while { I, J, J , K } is not. Find the total number of such sets T that Erica can construct.

## Explanation:

Each element of S presents Erica with 3 choices: include, exclude, or bold include. As | S | = 6 , the answer is 3 6 = 729

## 921 Strangle Delta

Company :

## Prompt:

The underlying is currently at price S 0 = 2 . You buy a strangle at strikes K = 3 and K = 5 . What direction would you prefer the underlying to go towards? Answer 1 for up, -1 for down, and 0 for stay where it's at.

## Explanation:

From the payoff, we can see that at S 0 = 2 , we are in the negative delta region of the strangle. Hence, we would want the stock to go downwards. An argument can be made that this payoff is at expiry. However, the option price (prior to expiry) will strictly be above the final payoff. For any price S 0 ≤ 3 , we can expect the delta to be negative. After S 0 &gt; 3 , then it may become more difficult to say.

## 922 Support Center

Company : None

## Prompt:

An IT support center receives 270 calls per hour, on average. What is the probability that more than 40 calls will be received in the next 10 minutes? Round your answer to the nearest thousandth.

## Explanation:

Let X be the number of calls the IT support center receives in 10 minutes. On average, the center receives 270 calls per hour, or 45 calls per 10 minutes. From this information, we can define X ∼ P (45) . Using a CDF calculator, we can calculate the following: