selection. In addition, there are ( 48 2 ) ways to pick two remaining cards for our hand that are not of the desired rank. Therefore, our answer is 624 624 + 4 · 13 ( 48 2 ) = 1 95 .

## 531 20-30 Die Split II

Company : Jane Street, DRW

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob have fair 30 -sided and 20 -sided dice, respectively. The goal is to obtain the largest possible value. Alice rolls her die one time. However, Bob can roll his die twice and keep the maximum of the two values. In the event of a tie, Bob is the winner. Find the probability Alice is the winner.

## Explanation:

Let W be the event Alice wins. Then we can use Law of Total Probability to condition on whether or not Alice's roll is larger than 20 . Let A be the value Alice rolls. Furthermore, let B 1 and B 2 be the values that Bob rolls on the first and second roll. We have that

$$\mathbb { P } [ W ] = \mathbb { P } [ W \ | \ A > 2 0 ] \mathbb { P } [ A > 2 0 ] + \mathbb { P } [ W \ | \ A \leq 2 0 ] \mathbb { P } [ A \leq 2 0 ]$$

It is clear to see that P [ A &gt; 20] = 1 3 , as this accounts for 10 of 30 values. Furthermore, P [ W | A &gt; 20] = 1 , as this is strictly larger than any value Bob can roll.

For the other case, we compute

$$\mathbb { P } [ W \ | \ A \leq 2 0 ] = \sum _ { a = 1 } ^ { 2 0 } \mathbb { P } [ \max \{ B _ { 1 } , B _ { 2 } \} < a ] \mathbb { P } [ A = a \ | \ A \leq 2 0 ] = \sum _ { a = 1 } ^ { 2 0 } \mathbb { P } [ B _ { 1 } < a ] ^ { 2 } \mathbb { P } [ A = a \ | \ A \leq 2 0 ]$$

This is the event of interest as we want the Alice to have a strictly higher value than Bob. We simplify the maximum statement by noting that B 1 and B 2 are IID and that max { B 1 , B 2 } &lt; a is equivalent to saying that B 1 &lt; a, B 2 &lt; a .

We know P [ A = a | A ≤ 20] = 1 20 , as we know A ≤ 20 , so there are 20 equally-likely values. Furthermore, we have that P [ B 1 &lt; a ] = a -1 20 , as we want B 1 to take some value between 1 and a -1 , inclusive of both. Therefore,

$$\mathbb { P } [ W \, | \, A \leq 2 0 ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 0 } \sum _ { a = 1 } ^ { 2 0 } \left ( \frac { a - 1 } { 2 0 } \right ) ^ { 2 } = \frac { 2 4 7 } { 8 0 0 }$$