## Prompt:

You bought an at-the-money call option with initial price C 0 = 2 . 3 for an underlying S , which has initial price S 0 = 13 . The gamma of this call is Γ = 0 . 03 . If the underlying S moves up by $2 , give an approximation for the new value of the call option.

## Explanation:

An at-the-money call option has ∆ = 0 . 5 . We know that Γ is the sensitivity of ∆ to the price change of the underlying. If the underlying moves by $1 , then we would expect the call option to increase by 0 . 5 . However, now, the delta has also increased by gamma ( ∆ = 0 . 5 + 0 . 03 = 0 . 53 ). In other words, ∆ = 0 . 53 . When the underlying moves another dollar up, then we need to increase the call option by this new delta. This leaves the following approximation of the new price of the option.

$$C = 2 . 3 + 0 . 5 + 0 . 5 3 = 3 . 3 3$$

## 523 9 For 1

Company : None

## Prompt:

An 8 -digit number is going to be created by a two-step process. First, select a uniformly random integer k ∈ { 0 , 1 , . . . , 8 } . Afterwards, we select one 8 -digit number uniformly at random from the collection of 8 -digit numbers with exactly k 1s and the other 8 -k digits are 9s. Call this selected number X . Find E [ X ] .

## Explanation:

Let X i be the digit in the 10 i spot in X , with X 0 being in the ones spot. For each digit X i , it is equally likely whether or not it is a 1 or 9 . This is because of the fact that we select k uniformly at random, so there as are equally many 8 -digit integers with k 1s as k 9s, we can view them as just flipped around. Therefore, E [ X i ] = 1 + 9 2 = 5 . We can write X = 10 7 · X 7 + · · · +10 1 · X 1 + X 0 . Therefore,

$$\mathbb { E } [ X ] = 1 0 ^ { 7 } \cdot \mathbb { E } [ X _ { 8 } ] + \cdots + \mathbb { E } [ X _ { 1 } ] = 5 \left ( 1 0 ^ { 8 } + \cdots + 1 0 + 1 \right ) = 5 \cdot 1 1 1 1 1 1 = 5 5 5 5 5 5 5$$

## 524 Lognormal I

Company : Citadel, Akuna, Vatic Labs

## Prompt:

Suppose that ln( X ) ∼ N (0 , 1) . Find ln( E [ X ]) .