## 687 Clock Angle II

Company : Virtu Financial, Jane Street, Wolverine Trading, Blackedge Capital

## Prompt:

What is the angle between the hands of a clock at 3:15 PM (in degrees)?

## Explanation:

We know that both hands will be very close to each other but should note that the hour hand will be slightly further clockwise than the minute hand because its been 15 minutes into the 3 rd hour. In fact, it is precisely one-fourth of the way between the 3 and 4 . Since there are 12 total space between numbers of the clock, each space has to occupy 30 ◦ . Thus, 1 4 · 30 ◦ = 7 . 5 ◦ .

## 688 Squid Game II

Company : Virtu Financial

## Prompt:

## Explanation:

Let's start with person 1 . We know that since they are leading, they must get everything right in order to be the first one across so

$$\mathbb { P } [ 1 \, \winjlim ] = \frac { 1 } { 2 ^ { 1 0 } }$$

Next, the only way person 2 can win is if person 1 is eliminated before reaching the end, and person 2 gets the remaining tiles correct. So, suppose person 1 is eliminated at tile k ∈ where 1 ≤ k ≤ 10 . The probability of person 1 making to tile k is

$$\underbrace { \left ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } \right ) ^ { k - 1 } } _ { k - 1 \, c o r r e c t } * \underbrace { \frac { 1 } { 2 } } _ { \, \text {last incorrect} }$$

10

contestants are arranged into a line on a bridge and in front of them lay ten left tiles and ten right tiles side by side. In order to cross the bridge, the contestants must cross 10 tiles, and at each step, the person in front must pick either the left or right tile to step on. However, for each left right tile pair, there is exactly one sturdy tile and one faulty tile, but the contestants cannot tell them apart. The contestants cross the bridge in their assigned order with the first person picking either the left or right tile, and continuing to lead unless either a faulty tile is picked (resulting in elimination) or person one reaches the other side. If the first person is eliminated before reaching the other side, the person second in line assumes the lead picking until he/she is eliminated (or reaches the other side), and so on. The winner of the game is the fi rst person to reach the other side. Let p i be the probability that the i th contestant in the line wins. Find sup p i .

i