## Explanation:

You choose to be the n -th person in line. In order for you to get the free sundae, all of the first n -1 people ahead of you must have different birthdays, and your birthday needs to be the same as one of these individuals. Thus, the probability that you receive the free sundae is P ( n ) = 365 × 364 × ... × (365 -n +2) 365 n -1 × n -1 365 . You may feel free to find the derivative with respect to n and solve for n . Another approach would be to notice that the n that we are solving for must be such that P ( n ) &gt; P ( n -1) and P ( n ) &gt; P ( n +1) ; or in other words, the value of n maximizes P ( n ) .

$$P ( n - 1 ) = \frac { 3 6 5 } { 3 6 5 } \times \frac { 3 6 4 } { 3 6 5 } \times \dots \times \frac { 3 6 5 - ( n - 3 ) } { 3 6 5 } \times \frac { n - 2 } { 3 6 5 }$$

$$P ( n ) > P ( n + 1 ) \Rightarrow n ^ { 2 } - n - 3 6 5 > 0$$

$$P ( n - 1 ) = \frac { 3 6 5 } { 3 6 5 } \times \frac { 3 6 4 } { 3 6 5 } \times \dots \times \frac { 3 6 5 - ( n - 3 ) } { 3 6 5 } \times \frac { n - 2 } { 3 6 5 } \\ P ( n ) = \frac { 3 6 5 } { 3 6 5 } \times \frac { 3 6 4 } { 3 6 5 } \times \dots \times \frac { 3 6 5 - ( n - 2 ) } { 3 6 5 } \times \frac { n - 1 } { 3 6 5 } \\ P ( n + 1 ) = \frac { 3 6 5 } { 3 6 5 } \times \frac { 3 6 4 } { 3 6 5 } \times \dots \times \frac { 3 6 5 - ( n - 1 ) } { 3 6 5 } \times \frac { n } { 3 6 5 } \\ P ( n ) > P ( n - 1 ) \Rightarrow n ^ { 2 } - 3 n - 3 6 3 < 0 \\ P ( n ) > P ( n + 1 ) \Rightarrow n ^ { 2 } - n - 3 6 5 > 0 \\$$

We find that the value of n that satisfies these two inequalities is 20.

## 6 Rubik's Cube Stickers

Company : Chicago Trading Company, Blackedge Capital

## Prompt:

A 4 × 4 × 4 Rubik's Cube is composed of 1 × 1 × 1 mini-cubes. The Rubik's Cube has stickers on its outer layer to denote the colors of the cube. How many mini-cubes have at least one sticker on them?

## Explanation:

There are a total of 4 3 mini-cubes that compose the Rubik's Cube. Of these, the core 2 3 mini-cubes that make up the inside of the cube and that are not showing do not have stickers on it. Thus, the total number of mini-cubes that do have stickers on it is:

$$4 ^ { 3 } - 2 ^ { 3 } = 5 6$$

Thus,

## 7 Mental Arithmetic

Company :