## Explanation:

For the variance to be a maximum, we need to optimize in two ways. Namely, we have to maximize the spread from the mean as well as the randomness about that mean. To maximize the distance of all points away from the mean, we should have a discrete random variable. This is because a continuous random variable has density throughout an interval, which makes it more compact about the mean. We can't have just one value in our discrete random variable, as then the variance would be 0 . Therefore, with 2 values, we should aim to separate them from the mean the furthest. This can be done by taking the values -1 and 1 , as those are the endpoints of our allowed interval. Then, to maximize how "random" our distribution is, we should set p = 1 2 . This would maximize something called the entropy. Note that with p = 1 2 , the mean is 0 .

Since the mean is 0 , all that needs to be computed is E [ X 2 ] , where X is as above. however, X 2 is just 1 with probability 1 , so E [ X 2 ] = 1 . Thus, Var ( X ) = E [ X 2 ] -( E [ X ]) 2 = 1 .

## 390 Increasing Uniform Chain I

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

Let X 1 , X 2 , · · · ∼ Unif (0 , 1) IID. Let N be the first index n where X n = max { X 1 , . . . , X n } . Find E [ X N -1 ] i.e. the largest value among the first N values selected. The answer will be in the form a + be for integers a and b . Note here that e is Euler's constant. Find a + b .

## Explanation:

Let f ( x ) be the expected largest number given that the current largest is x . We want f (0) , as we are selecting uniform values on (0 , 1) , so our initial largest value is 0 . We don't choose a starting value lower than 0 since we can't generate values lower than 0 .

With probability x , the next value is smaller than x , and our largest value will be x . Otherwise, if our next value is y &gt; x , y is uniformly distributed on ( x, 1) , so the expected maximum in that case is f ( y ) . We integrate over all x &lt; y &lt; 1 since we are applying Law of Total Probability. Written as an equation, this is

$$f ( x ) = x ^ { 2 } + \int _ { x } ^ { 1 } f ( y ) d y$$

Taking the derivative to convert into a differential equation, we get that f ′ ( x ) = 2 x -f ( x ) . Equivalently, f ′ ( x ) + f ( x ) = 2 x . An initial condition for this differential equation is f (1) = 1 , as we can't go any higher than 1 .

/negationslash