being at most x is x . Then, given the value is in (0 , x ) , it is uniform on that interval. Say X 1 is the value showed to us. By conditioning on X 1 = a ,

$$\mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = \min \{ X _ { 1 } , X _ { 2 } , X _ { 3 } \} ] = \int _ { 0 } ^ { x } \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = \min \{ X _ { 1 } , X _ { 2 } , X _ { 3 } \} \ | \ X _ { 1 } = a ] f _ { X _ { 1 } } ( a ) d a = \frac { 1 } { x } \int _ { 0 } ^ { x } ( 1 - a ) ^ { 2 } d a = \frac { 1 } { 3 } a ^ { 2 } - a + 1$$

The (1 -a ) 2 term comes from the probability both X 2 and X 3 are larger than a . Multiplying by the probability of X 1 ≤ a and doubling to account for the third case, we get a term of 2 a ( 1 3 a 2 -a +1 ) for our final probability.

Now, we account for the middle case, which occurs with probability 1 -2 a . If X 1 is in this interval, it is uniform throughout it. Therefore, conditioning on X 1 = a once again, we would now guess X 1 is the median, so

$$\mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = \text {med} \{ X _ { 1 } , X _ { 2 } , X _ { 3 } \} ] = \int _ { x } ^ { 1 - x } \mathbb { P } [ X _ { 1 } = \text {med} \{ X _ { 1 } , X _ { 2 } , X _ { 3 } \} \ | \ X _ { 1 } = a ] f _ { X _ { 1 } } ( a ) d a = \frac { 1 } { 1 - 2 x } \int _ { x } ^ { 1 - x } 2 a ( 1 - a ) d a = - \frac { 2 } { 3 } x ^ { 2 } + \frac { 2 } { 3 } x + \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

The 2 a (1 -a ) term comes from the fact that one of the remaining two random variables is above and the other is below a with 2 ways to order them. Multiplying by 1 -2 x to account for the probability of the median being in ( x, 1 -x ) , adding it to the first term of p ( x ) from above, and simplifying it all, we get p ( x ) = 2 x 3 -4 x 2 +2 x + 1 3 .

To maximize p ( x ) , we take the derivative. Namely, p ′ ( x ) = 6 x 2 -8 x + 2 , of which the zeroes are x ∗ = 8 ± √ 64 -48 12 = 1 3 , 1 . As 0 &lt; x &lt; 1 2 (since then the regions would overlap), we conclude x ∗ = 1 3 is our maximizer, with p ( x ∗ ) = 17 27 .

## 782 Child Births

Company :

## Prompt:

We suppose that the number of children that a family has in the USA is N ∼ Poisson ( λ ) for some λ . We prescribe a prior distribution of λ ∼ Gamma (32 , 10) to the distribution, where we use the Shape-Rate parameterization. We then observe 34 families who have a total of 100 kids combined. Find the posterior mean for λ .