We want the probability of the sequence CDDDD, which can occur in 6 · 6 · 5 · 4 · 3 ways. The total number of ways to assign animals to those 5 spots is 12 · 11 · 10 · 9 · 8 . Therefore, P [ A 1 ] = 6 · 6 · 5 · 4 · 3 12 · 11 · 10 · 9 · 8 = 1 44 . Therefore, our probability of interest is 12 44 = 3 11 .

## 62 Increasing Dice Order I

Company : None

## Prompt:

You throw three fair dice one by one. What is the probability that you obtain three numbers in strictly increasing order?

## Explanation:

We can use conditional probability to solve this problem.

P ( 3 strictly increasing numbers ) = P ( 3 different numbers ) × P ( increasing order | 3 different numbers ) . The first term is simply 6 6 × 5 6 × 4 6 from drawing without replacement. The second term is 1 3! = 1 6 , since there is only one way of permuting three distinct numbers to be strictly increasing. Hence we find the answer to be 6 6 × 5 6 × 4 6 × 1 6 = 5 54 .

## 63 Non-Zero Eigenvalue

Company :

## Prompt:

Let x n = [ 1 2 . . . n ] T ∈ R n . Define A n = x n x T n . For any fixed n , there is a single non-zero eigenvalue. Call this eigenvalue λ n . Find the value of k such that λ n n k converges to a finite non-zero value.

## Explanation:

We know that the trace of a matrix is the sum of all the eigenvalues repeated according to their algebraic multiplicity. We first need to find the algebraic multiplicity of this non-zero eigenvalue. The trick here is to note that each of the rows of A n are linearly dependent. Namely, the k th row of this matrix is a multiple k times the first row. This means that the subspace A n x = 0 (i.e. the null space of A n ) has geometric multiplicity n -1 , as the other n -1 rows are a multiple of the first row. The dimension of the null space, however, is just the geometric multiplicity of 0 as an eigenvalue. Therefore, GM λ =0 ( A n ) = n -1 .

We now use another theorem that states that for any n × n matrix A and eigenvalue of A , say λ , 1 ≤ GM λ ( A ) ≤ AM λ ( A ) ≤ n . As we know GM λ =0 ( A n ) = n -1 , we have that AM λ =0 ( A n ) is either n -1