## 263 Longest Rope II

Company : Five Rings

## Prompt:

Suppose you have a rope that is 1 meter in length. You cut the rope uniformly at random along the length. Find the variance of the length of the longer piece (in meters).

## Explanation:

Let X be the distance from the LHS that the rope is cut. Then we know that X ∼ Unif (0 , 1) and L = max { X, 1 -X } is the length of the longer piece, as the division at point X yields two pieces of length X and 1 -X . We know that L ≥ 0 . 5 , as at least one of the two pieces must be longer than 1 / 2 in length. However, we see that the event { L = c } corresponds to X = c or X = 1 -c , so we get that L ∼ Unif (0 . 5 , 1) , meaning that Var ( L ) = (0 . 5) 2 12 = 1 48 .

## 264 Straddle Arbitrage I

Company :

## Prompt:

You have a straddle with initial price V 0 = 5 . 4 with strike K = 17 , a European vanilla put with initial price P 0 = 4 . 2 , a European vanilla call with C 0 = 1 . 4 , both at strike K = 17 , the underlying stock S with initial price S 0 = 14 , and bonds that pay 1 at timeT and initial price B 0 = 0 . 9 .

Find the arbitrage. Give the answer in the format of # Stock + # Call + # Put + # Bonds + # Straddle

## Explanation:

We can replicate a straddle at strike K by going long 1 unit of the call and 1 unit of the put. So, we should have the following equality:

$$V _ { 0 } = P _ { 0 } + C _ { 0 }$$

When plugging in the prices, we see this equality doesn't hold. We have 5 . 4 ? = 4 . 2 + 1 . 4 = 5 . 6

To take the arbitrage, we long the undervalued item and short the overvalued item. Here, we long the straddle and short the vanilla call and put. The bond and underlying stock are irrelevant.