## Explanation:

The total number of unit squares shaded black is cs . Meanwhile, if each row has at most t -1 black unit squares, then by the Pigeonhole Principle, at most r ( t -1) unit squares could have been shaded black. Thus, if cs &gt; r ( t -1) , then any valid shading configuration must yield a row with at least t black unit squares.

Conversely, if cs ≤ r ( t -1) , then there exists a shading configuration in which no rows have at least t black unit squares, which we construct as follows: (1) number the rows 0 , . . . , r -1 and the columns 0 , . . . , c -1 ; (2) in each column i ∈ { 0 , 1 , . . . , c -1 } , shade the s unit squares in the rows (( si + j ) mod r ) for integers j ∈ { 0 , 1 , . . . , s -1 } . If we follow this procedure by iterating i and j in ascending order, then for each integer k ∈ { 1 , 2 , . . . , cs } , the k th square shaded lies in row (( k -1) mod r ) . Therefore, row 0 has at least as many black unit squares as any other row, and row 0 has exactly /ceilingleft cs/r /ceilingright black unit squares per our construction. By the assumption cs ≤ r ( t -1) , /ceilingleft cs/r /ceilingright is at most t -1 , so no row has more than t -1 black unit squares. Thus, the answer to this problem is c = ⌊ r ( t -1) s ⌋ +1 . Evaluating with our given values, we get the value 43 .

## 761 Beer Barrel II

Company :

## Prompt:

A 120-quart beer barrel was discovered by Anna's parents. Furious, they plan to dump the barrel. Anna begs her parents to let her keep some of the beer. They say that Anna may do so if she is able to measure out an exact quart into each of a 7-quart and 5-quart vessel. You have exactly 1 of each type of vessel. Note that Anna is allowed to pour beer from a vessel back into the beer barrel. Define a transaction as a pour of liquid from one container into another. What is the smallest number of transactions needed to accomplish the challenge? If impossible, respond with -1.

## Explanation:

To achieve the task in the fewest possible transactions (17 in total), follow these steps:

1. Fill the 7-quart measure.
2. Fill the 5-quart measure.
3. Empty 108 quarts from the barrel.