## 586 Pizza Passcode

Company :

## Prompt:

Pizza Hut gives new users a 7 -digit code when they sign up. There are no restrictions on how many times a digit can be used, and digits are allowed to start with 0 . How many such codes are non-decreasing? In other words, each digit in the passcode is at least as large as the last. 1122345 and 9999999 are such examples, whereas 2345657 is not.

## Explanation:

Let x i be the number of times that digit i , 0 ≤ i ≤ 9 , appears in the code. Then x 0 + x 1 + · · · + x 9 = 7 and each x i ≥ 0 is an integer. Furthermore, each non-negative integer solution to this equation yields a unique code. The first one in the question corresponds to x 1 = x 2 = 2 , x 3 = x 4 = x 5 = 1 . Therefore, we just need to count the number of non-negative integer solutions to this, which is just

$$\left ( \begin{matrix} 1 0 + 7 - 1 \\ 1 0 - 1 \end{matrix} \right ) = \left ( \begin{matrix} 1 6 \\ 9 \end{matrix} \right ) = 1 1 4 4 0$$

by stars and bars.

## 587 Pharmaceutics I

Company : None

## Prompt:

A pharmaceutical company has researched a drug that they claim will enhance focus for 80 % of people suffering from attention deficit disorder. After examining the drug, the FDA believes that their claims regarding the effectiveness of the drug are inflated. In an attempt to disprove the company's claim, the FDA administers the drug to 20 people with attention deficit disorder and observe X, the number for whom the drug dose induces focus. More formally, the FDA is testing the null hypothesis H 0 : p = 0 . 8 against the alternative hypothesis H a : p &lt; 0 . 8 . Assuming the rejection region x ≤ 12 is used, what is α , the level of significance?

## Explanation:

The level of significance is also the probability that the test statistic is in the rejection region given the null hypothesis is true.

$$\alpha & = P ( \text {rejecting } H _ { 0 } \text { when } H _ { 0 } \text { is true} ) = P ( x \leq 1 2 \, | \, p = 0 . 8 ) \\ & = \sum _ { i = 0 } ^ { 1 2 } \left ( \begin{matrix} 2 0 \\ i \end{matrix} \right ) \times 0 . 8 ^ { i } \times 0 . 2 ^ { 1 2 - i } \approx 0 . 0 3 2$$