## Prompt:

You are playing a 2D game where your character is trapped within a 6 × 6 grid. Your character starts at (0 , 0) and can only move up and right. How many possible paths can your character take to get to (6 , 6) ?

## Explanation:

Your character will take a total of 12 steps, regardless of the path it takes. Of these 12 steps, 6 must be up, and the other 6 must be right. In other words, of the 12 steps, you choose 6 of them to be up, and the rest will be filled in as right. Thus, the total number of paths you character can take is:

$$\begin{pmatrix} 1 2 \\ 6 \end{pmatrix} = \frac { 1 2 ! } { 6 ! \times 6 ! } = 9 2 4$$

## 316 Keg of Wine

Company : Belvedere Trading

## Prompt:

Alex has a 10-gallon keg of wine and a big ladle. On Monday, Alex drew off a ladle-full of wine and filled the keg back up with water. On Tuesday, he repeated the process, making sure to mix the contents in the keg around first. On Wednesday morning, he realized that the keg now contains equal parts of wine and water. How many gallons can the ladle hold? The answer is in the form a -b √ c with a = bc . Find a + b + c .

## Explanation:

Let x denote the capacity of the jug. Then, the proportion of wine in the keg after Tuesday can be denoted as:

$$2 0 - 2 x - \frac { 1 0 x - x ^ { 2 } } { 5 } = 1 0$$

$$\frac { 1 0 - x - \left ( \frac { 1 0 - x } { 1 0 } \right ) x } { 1 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

$$\Rightarrow x = 1 0 - 5 \sqrt { 2 }$$

This means that a + b + c = 17 .

## 317 Light Bulb

Company : None

## Prompt:

You stand outside of a room that contains a light bulb. Next to you are four switches, one of which powers the light bulb. What is the least number of times you need to enter the room to figure out which switch powers the light bulb?