## 484 Plane Partition

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Find the maximum number of disjoint regions the plane can be divided into by 10 non-parallel lines. For example, one line splits the plane into 2 regions.

## Explanation:

Let L n be the maximum number of regions with n lines. Note that L 1 = 2 by the above and L 2 = 4 , as we want to draw two non-parallel lines. The key observation is here that the ( n +1) st line that is added should intersect each of the first n lines, and this yields n +1 distinct regions. We can see this in the small cases of n = 1 , 2 , and 3 . More rigorously, the ( n +1) st line splits k of the old regions exactly when it intersects the existing lines in k -1 places. As two lines can only intersect in at most one point, then this implies L n +1 ≤ L n +( n +1) , as we get k ≤ n +1 given that the new line can intersect the old lines in at most n places.

However, it is also possible to place the line so that it is non-parallel to every other existing line and it doesn't intersect at any existing intersection points. Therefore, L n +1 ≥ L n +( n +1) by the same logic. This means we derived the recurrence L n +1 = L n +( n +1) , which simply has the solution

$$L _ { n } = \frac { n ( n + 1 ) } { 2 } + 1$$

Plugging in n = 10 , we see that our answer is 56 .

## 485 Conditional Expectation I

Company : None

## Prompt:

Consider the following joint pdf:

$$\ g \text { joint pdf.} \\ f _ { X _ { 1 } , X _ { 2 } } ( x _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } ) = \begin{cases} c ( 1 - x _ { 2 } ) & 0 \leq x _ { 1 } \leq x _ { 2 } \leq 1 \\ 0 & \text {otherwise} \end{cases} \\ \text {such that } f _ { X _ { 1 } , X _ { 2 } } \text { is a valid joint pdf. Compute } \mathbb { E } [ X _ { 1 } ] .$$

where c is a constant such that f X 1 ,X 2 is a valid joint pdf. Compute E [ X 1 ] .