the total amount of draws needed to go from our current state to 3 blue orbs. By linearity of expectation, E [ T ] = E [ X 1 ] + E [ X 2 ] . Note that X 1 ∼ Geom (2 / 3) , as there is a 2 3 probability on each draw that the orb will be red (and hence replaced by a blue after). Similarly, X 2 ∼ Geom (1 / 3) . The means of these two are 3 2 and 3 , respectively, so the answer is E [ T ] = 3 2 +3 = 9 2 .

## 87 Illegible Dice

Company : None

## Prompt:

You are given two fair dice: one is a normal six-sided die and the other is an illegible, six-sided die. Note that the values on this other die do not necessarily need to be 1 -6 . Whenever you toss the two dice, it is equally likely for the sum of the faces to be any integer between 1 and 12 , inclusive. What is the sum of the sides of the illegible die?

## Explanation:

There are 36 possible face combinations of two six-sided dice rolls. In order for each of the twelve outcomes to be equally likely, each must be able to occur exactly three times. In order for 1 to occur three times, there must be three 0 s on the illegible die. Furthermore, in order for 12 to occur three times, there must be three 6 s on the illegible die. Hence, we have solved the sides of the illegible die and the sum of its sides is 18 .

## 88 Sharpe Marbles

Company : Jane Street

## Prompt:

Siblings Alice and Bob play a game with marbles. Each player has one red and one blue marble and shows one marble to the other uniformly at random. If both show blue, Alice wins $1 . If both show red, Alice wins $3 . Else, Bob wins $2 . Note that the winnings come from their mother, not the other player. Let A r and B r define the ratio between the expected return and variance of Alice's and Bob's payoffs, respectively. What is B r -A r ?

## Explanation:

Siblings Alice and Bob play a game with marbles. Each player has one red and one blue marble and shows one marble to the other uniformly at random. If both show blue, Alice wins $1 . If both show red, Alice wins $3 . Else, Bob wins $2 . Note that the winnings come from their mother, not the other player. Let A r and B r define the ratio between the expected return and variance of Alice's and Bob's payoffs, respectively. What is B r -A r ?