replace the ball between trials, to get P [ BB | U i ] , we just have to square P [ B | U i ] . This means that

$$\mathbb { P } [ B ] = \frac { 1 + 1 / 2 + 0 } { 3 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$$

$$\mathbb { P } [ B B ] = \frac { 1 + 1 / 4 + 0 } { 3 } = \frac { 5 } { 1 2 }$$

and

Therefore, the answer is P [ BB | B ] = 5 / 12 1 / 2 = 5 6 .

## 465 Builders

Company : SIG, IMC

## Prompt:

Alice and Bob can each build a pipe on their own in 120 and 100 minutes, respectively. Instead, they work together on building a pipe. After 40 minutes of building, Charlie assists them in building the pipe. Together, they finish building the pipe 10 minutes after Charlie joins. In how many minutes could Charlie build the pipe on his own?

## Explanation:

Suppose 600 total units need to be built to fully create the pipe. It follows then that Alice builds at 5 units per minute and Bob builds at 6 units per minute (indeed, their respective completion times are 120 and 100 minutes). After 40 minutes, Alice and Bob together would have completed 40 · (5+6) = 440 of the 600 units. After Charlie joins, they complete the remaining 160 units in 10 minutes, meaning that they were building at a rate of 16 units per minute with all three working. As they were at 11 per minute before Charlie joined, this means Charlie builds at 5 units per minute, the same rate as Alice, so Charlie also would take 120 minutes to build the pipe on his own.

## 466 Valid Expressions

Company : IMC

## Prompt:

How many valid arithmetic expressions using only ∗ and + are there that include the values 123456789 in order? Some examples include 1 + 2 + 3456 + 7 ∗ 89 , 123 + 456 ∗ 78 + 9 , and 123456789 .

## Explanation:

Consider all sequences in the form 1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 . We know that each -can either be a + , ∗ , or nothing. That gives 3 options for each of the 8 dashes that we listed, so there are 3 8 possible sequences by the multiplication rule.