For an option at strike K = 13 , the implied volatility is σ = 0 . 3 . At time 1 , the underlying price is S 1 = 15 . What is the implied volatility of the K = 13 strike option?

## Explanation:

The sticky-strike model assumes that implied volatility follows some curve, which is constant across the strikes. This does not assume that the curve is flat, but rather it is strictly a function of the strikes. Here, even though the underlying moves, we still are looking at the same strike, and thus it will have the same implied volatility.

## 894 Estimating Pi

Company : SIG

## Prompt:

You decide to estimate π by generating N independent samples from the unit square [0 , 1] × [0 , 1] . Let I i represent the indicator random variable of the event that the i th sample, 1 ≤ i ≤ N , lands inside the region enclosed by x 2 + y 2 = 1 in the first quadrant. Using

$$T _ { N } = \frac { I _ { 1 } + \dots + I _ { N } } { N }$$

in your estimate for π , what is variance of your estimate for π ? Note that T N is not necessarily an estimator for π itself. The answer is in the form

$$\frac { a \pi ^ { 2 } + b \pi } { N }$$

for integers a and b . Find a + b . Note that this variance is somewhat useless given that you need π to calculate your variance.

## Explanation:

Note that T N → E [ I 1 ] = π 4 with probability 1 by the Strong Law of Large Numbers. E [ I 1 ] = π 4 because of the fact that the circle occupies a proportion of π 4 of the total area of the square. Our estimate for π should be 4 T N . This is the quantity we want to find the variance of.

By properties of variance and the fact that each I i is IID, we have that

$$V a r ( 4 T _ { N } ) = 1 6 V a r ( T _ { N } ) = 1 6 V a r \left ( \frac { I _ { 1 } + \cdots + I _ { N } } { N } \right ) = \frac { 1 6 } { N ^ { 2 } } \cdot N V a r ( I _ { 1 } ) = \frac { 1 6 V a r ( I _ { 1 } ) } { N }$$

We can use the standard formula to compute Var ( I 1 ) . This is just Var ( I 1 ) = E [ I 2 1 ] -( E [ I 1 ]) 2 . However, note that I 2 1 = I 1 , as I 1 only takes the values 0 and 1 . Therefore, Var ( I 1 ) = π 4 -π 2 16 = 4 π -π 2 16 . Accordingly, our