that side 1 is colored red. We know that 10 2 of the cubes will have side 1 colored red, as each side is colored red on one face of the big cube, which is 10 2 little cubes. Therefore, the probability side 1 is red is 10 2 10 3 = 1 10 . Therefore, E [ T ] = 3 5 by substituting back in.

## 207 Resell Painting

Company : Jane Street, SIG

## Prompt:

You are currently bidding for a painting. You know that the value of the painting is between $0 and $100 , 000 uniformly. If your bid is greater than the value of the painting, you win and sell it to an art museum at a price of 1 . 5 times the value. What's your bid to max your profit? If you can not profit, bid $0 .

## Explanation:

If your bid is lower than the value of the painting, you wonât lose anything, so no harm no foul. However, let's say that you do win the painting. This means that you bid higher than the actual value. Let x be your bid. Given you won the bid, we know that the the value is at most x . Therefore, the conditional distribution of the value of the painting is Unif (0 , x ) . On average, the value of the painting will be x 2 . This means we will be able to sell it, on average, for 1 . 5 · x 2 = 3 4 x . However, this is less than x , the amount we paid for the painting. So we shouldnât bid on this painting, thus the answer is $0 .

## 208 Pick Your Opponent

Company :

## Prompt:

You are in a tennis tournament with Alice and Bob. The tournament consists of 3 games. You win the tournament if you win two consecutive games. You have a better chance of beating Bob than Alice. If A represents Alice and B represents Bob, would you prefer your three games to be, in order, ABA or BAB ? Answer 1 and 2 for ABA and BAB , respectively.

## Explanation:

Intuitively, to win the tournament, you must win your second game, as you have to win 2 in a row. Therefore, you should play the easier opponent in the middle, meaning you should select ABA . To verify this, let x and y be your probabilities of being Alice and Bob, respectively. We know that x &lt; y by the question.