out per period, which is our face value * our coupon rate. In this case 3000 · 0 . 04 = 120 . We then want to calculate how much value we are giving up to inflation. This is given by the formula:

$$\sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { 5 } \frac { 1 2 0 } { 1 . 0 7 ^ { n } }$$

Here 120 is our coupon payment, 1 . 07 represents our inflation rate of 7% , and we iterate through all 5 years. Calculating here we get 492 . 02 .

The second step is calculating our final face value payment, which is given by the face value and then dividing by the inflation rate to the power of however many years we were losing money to inflation. In this case, it will be 3000 / 1 . 07 5 , which equals 2138 . 98 .

Finally, add up the cash flows and the final face value to get our answer of 2630 . 98 .

## 50 Hand Meet

Company : Jane Street, IMC

## Prompt:

It is presently 12 : 00 PM. The minute and hour hands meet there. After how many hours will the minute and hour hands meet again? Enter a fraction if it is not an integer amount of hours.

## Explanation:

Let h be the number of hours. The minutes hand will move 360 h degrees. In addition, we know that the hours hand moves 30 h degrees. However, as we need to account for rotation, the first time they meet, the minutes hand will have travelled an additional 360 degrees beyond the hours hand, as it completes a rotation. Therefore, we get the equation 360 h = 30 h +360 , which yields h = 12 11 .

## 51 Positive Brownian II

Company :

## Prompt:

Let B t be a standard Brownian Motion. Find P [ B 2 &gt; 0 , B 8 &gt; 0] .