## Explanation:

The clever idea is to see that the winning player needs to obtain two consecutive wins. The probability that Rob obtains two consecutive wins is 0 . 6 2 = 0 . 36 . The probability that Bob obtains two consecutive wins is 0 . 4 2 = 0 . 16 . The probability that in the next two serves they each receive one win is 2 · 0 . 6 · 0 . 4 = 0 . 48 . If they each obtain one win in the next two serves, then the scenario is exactly the same as being tied and needing 2 consecutive wins on the next serves to win the game. Therefore, to get a winner, we just need one of the two players to obtain two consecutive wins. Accordingly, we can condition on the event that someone has obtained two consecutive wins. Given this, the probability the winner is Rob is 0 . 6 2 0 . 6 2 +0 . 4 2 = 9 13 .

## 886 Life Is A Raceway

Company :

## Prompt:

Lightning McQueen goes for a race. He places 14 places ahead of last place and 6 places below the upper half of competitors. What place was Lightning McQueen in?

## Explanation:

Let x be Lightning McQueen's place. We know the upper half is cutoff is x -6 , as it is 6 places better than him. We also know that the lowest place is x +14 , as it is 14 places worse than him. Therefore, we know that the upper half cutoff is half of the lowest place, so x -6 = x +14 2 , meaning that x = 26 .

## 887 Local Maxima

Company : None

## Prompt:

14

pieces of paper labelled 1 -14 are placed in a line at random. We spot i is a local maxima if the paper at the i th position is strictly larger than all of it's adjacent papers. Find the expected number of local maxima in the sequence. For example, with 6 numbers, 513246 has 3 local maxima at the first, third, and last spots.

## Explanation:

We will want to model whether or not the i th spot is a local maxima or not. Being a local maxima means that the numbers to the left and right of the spot are strictly smaller than our current spot. For the endpoints, this means that it is just larger than the value to the right/left (accordingly for the endpoint). Thus, if I i is the indicator that spot i is a local maxima, T = I 1 + · · · + I 14 gives the total number of local maxima.