## 153 Throwing Darts I

Company : Citadel, Belvedere Trading, SIG

## Prompt:

A dart lands uniformly randomly on a dartboard composed of three concentric circles with radii of 1ft, 2ft, and 3ft. Assuming the dart lands on the dartboard, what is the probability that it lands in the central ring, between the 1ft and 2ft circles?

## Explanation:

The probability that the dart lands in the central ring is the ratio of the area of the central ring to the area of the entire board, since the dart lands uniformly at random on the board. The area of the entire board is 9 π and the area of the central ring is 4 π -1 π . Hence, the probability that the dart lands in the central ring is:

$$\frac { 4 \pi - \pi } { 9 \pi } = \frac { 1 } { 3 }$$

## 154 10 Die Sum

Company : Old Mission, Citadel, Jane Street

## Prompt:

Find the probability of obtaining a sum of 10 when rolling three fair 6 -sided dice.

## Explanation:

The most efficient approach here would be generating functions. However, we are going to solve via casework instead. The possibilities of values (not ordered in any way currently) that result in a sum of 10 are

$$( 1 , 6 , 3 ) , ( 1 , 5 , 4 ) , ( 2 , 6 , 2 ) , ( 2 , 5 , 3 ) , ( 2 , 4 , 4 ) , ( 3 , 4 , 3 )$$

Three of this combinations have all distinct values. Namely, these are (1 , 6 , 3) , (1 , 5 , 4) , and (2 , 5 , 3) . For these sets of outcomes, there are 3! = 6 ways they can be assigned to the three dice. These yields 3 · 6 = 18 possibilities.

The other three outcomes have two distinct values. For these, there are only 3 ways they can each be assigned to the dice, as you only select the die that shows the value that differs from the other two. Then, the other two dice are fixed. These yields 3 · 3 = 9 possibilities.