## Prompt:

Max is building a tower from three distinct colors of building blocks (red, blue, and yellow). He has 7 blocks of each color and randomly picks a block out at a time to build his tower of 5 blocks in height. What is the probability the tower has composed of exactly two different colors?

## Explanation:

There are ( 3 2 ) ways to select the two colors of interest for building the tower. There are ( 21 5 ) total combinations of blocks able to be chosen to construct the tower. Finally, there are ( 14 5 ) combinations to select the blocks for the tower. However, this overcounts as you are also counting towers that are composed of just one color. Thus we need to subtract 2 · ( 7 5 ) ways of this happening. Combining all of these, we get a final probability of

.

## 648 Existent MGF

Company :

## Prompt:

Let X be a random variable with MGF M ( θ ) such that M (1) = 7 . Find the smallest possible value for M (4) .

## Explanation:

We know that M ( θ ) = E [ e θ X ] for all θ such that this expectation exists. Thus, M (1) = E [ e X ] = 7 . Consider the random variable Y = e X . Then

$$V a r ( Y ) = \mathbb { E } [ Y ^ { 2 } ] - ( \mathbb { E } [ Y ] ) ^ { 2 } = \mathbb { E } [ e ^ { 2 X } ] - ( \mathbb { E } [ e ^ { X } ] ) ^ { 2 } = M ( 2 ) - ( M ( 1 ) ) ^ { 2 }$$

By definition, Var ( Y ) ≥ 0 , so M (2) -7 2 ≥ 0 , meaning M (2) ≥ 49 .

By applying the same logic now to Z = e 2 X , we have that Var ( Z ) = M (4) -( M (2)) 2 ≥ M (4) -49 2 ≥ 0 , so M (4) ≥ 49 2 = 2401 .

Alternatively, one can apply Jensen's Inequality to Y = e X and f ( y ) = y 4 . As y 4 is convex on (0 , ∞ ) , we have that ( E [ Y ]) 4 = ( M (1)) 4 = 7 4 = 2401 ≤ E [ Y 4 ] = M (4) .

$$\left ( \begin{matrix} 3 \\ 2 \end{matrix} \right ) \cdot \frac { \left ( \begin{matrix} 1 4 \\ 5 \end{matrix} \right ) - 2 \cdot \left ( \begin{matrix} 7 \\ 5 \end{matrix} \right ) } { \left ( \begin{matrix} 2 1 \\ 5 \end{matrix} \right ) } = \frac { 5 8 8 0 } { 2 0 3 4 9 }$$