## Explanation:

The strategy here is close to optimal but needs simulations to fully reach optimality. However, this strategy makes sense intuitively because if the current ratio is 0 . 5 : 1 , we should always try and get another head as we can always get back to a ratio of 0 . 5 : 1 .

/negationslash

To put this strategy in a mathematical context, the optimal ratio will be n +1 2 n +1 where n is a number from 0 to infinity. Thus we should always end on an odd roll. To find the expectation, we need to find a weighted sum of this series, the weight being the probability we end on 2 n +1 . When we stop on 2 n +1 and n = 0 , we know the last toss needs to be heads and for k = 1 , 2 , ..., 2 n , the first k tosses can't include more heads than tails (we would've stopped the flips earlier in that case).

To count such sequences, we can use Dyck words (length 2 n ) and the n -th Catalan number can be found by C n = 1 n +1 ( 2 n n ) .

Since each of the Catalan numbers have probability of ( 1 2 ) 2 n and the last flip is heads with probability of 1 2 , the expectation of the ratio becomes ∞ ∑ n =0 p n · n +1 2 n +1 = 1 2 ∞ ∑ n =0 1 4 n (2 n +1) · ( 2 n n ) . Using the Taylor series for arcsin( x ) , this summation simplifies to

$$\frac { 1 } { 2 } \cdot \arcsin ( 1 ) = \frac { \pi } { 4 } \approx 0 . 7 8 5$$

## 776 Mean Cards

Company : None

## Prompt:

Suppose you have a deck of 100 cards labeled with values 1 -100 . The deck is thoroughly shuffled and cards are dealt one-by-one from the top of the deck. For every card that is dealt, you may either keep it or discard it. Discarding a card costs $1 . At the end, you are paid out the average value of all the cards you keep. What is the optimal strategy and expected profit on this game?

## Explanation:

The optimal strategy will be the in the form of keeping all cards at least k for some threshold k . Therefore, as a function of k , say f ( k ) , let's find the expected profit of the strategy.